uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication was
thin stuff out there!" He nodded at the Martian landscape stretching
flat and desolate in the light of the nearer moon, beyond the glass of
Leroy, the biologist, and Harrison, the astronomer and captain of the
expedition, first human beings to set foot on the mysterious neighbor of
the earth, the planet Mars. This, of course, was in the old days, less
than twenty years after the mad American Doheny perfected the atomic
blast at the cost of his life, and only a decade after the equally mad
Cardoza rode on it to the moon. They were true pioneers, these four of
de Lancey flight aimed at the seductive orb of Venus, they were the
first men to feel other gravity than earth's, and certainly the first
successful crew to leave the earth-moon system. And they deserved that
success when one considers the difficulties and discomforts--the months
spent in acclimatization chambers back on earth, learning to breathe the
air as tenuous as that of Mars, the challenging of the void in the tiny
rocket driven by the cranky reaction motors of the twenty-first century,
You set out all shipshape in an auxiliary rocket, we don't get a peep
for ten days, and finally Putz here picks you out of a lunatic ant-heap
North, and then I got into my flying sweat-box and headed South. You'll
remember, Cap--we had orders not to land, but just scout about for
points of interest. I set the two cameras clicking and buzzed along,
riding pretty high--about two thousand feet--for a couple of reasons.
First, it gave the cameras a greater field, and second, the under-jets
travel so far in this half-vacuum they call air here that they stir up
films, though. They'd have paid the cost of this junket; remember how
buzzed along at a pretty good clip; just as we figured, the wings
haven't much lift in this air at less than a hundred miles per hour, and
under-jets, the seeing wasn't any too good. I could see enough, though,
to distinguish that what I sailed over was just more of this grey plain
that we'd been examining the whole week since our landing--same blobby
growths and the same eternal carpet of crawling little plant-animals, or
biopods, as Leroy calls them. So I sailed along, calling back my
position every hour as instructed, and not knowing whether you heard
surface changed to a sort of low plateau, nothing but desert and
orange-tinted sand. I figured that we were right in our guess, then,
and this grey plain we dropped on was really the Mare Cimmerium which
would make my orange desert the region called Xanthus. If I were right,
I ought to hit another grey plain, the Mare Chronium in another couple
of hundred miles, and then another orange desert, Thyle I or II. And so
didn't see!" He rubbed his tingling nose, and continued. "I knew that I
had sixteen hours of daylight at this season, so eight hours--eight
hundred miles--from here, I decided to turn back. I was still over
Thyle, whether I or II I'm not sure, not more than twenty-five miles
suddenly there I was with a thump right in the middle of Thyle! Smashed
more than ten times! Besides, the bump flattened the landing gear and
busted off the under-jets. Suppose I got the thing working--what then?
Ten miles with the blast coming right out of the bottom and I'd have
melted the floor from under me!" He rubbed his nose again. "Lucky for me
Nothing serious, but I had my choice of waiting to be picked up or
trying to walk back--eight hundred miles, and perhaps twenty days before
we had to leave! Forty miles a day! Well," he concluded, "I chose to
the water tank on my back, took a cartridge belt and revolver, and some
which is eighty-five here. Then, besides, my own personal two hundred
and ten pounds is only seventy on Mars, so, tank and all, I grossed a
hundred and fifty-five, or fifty-five pounds less than my everyday
earth-weight. I figured on that when I undertook the forty-mile daily
stroll. Oh--of course I took a thermo-skin sleeping bag for these wintry
meant twenty miles or more. It got tiresome, of course--plugging along
over a soft sand desert with nothing to see, not even Leroy's crawling
biopods. But an hour or so brought me to the canal--just a dry ditch
about four hundred feet wide, and straight as a railroad on its own
what looked like a nice green lawn. Only, as I approached, the lawn
grass-like blade about as long as my finger, with two thin, stemmy
opening in front and closing behind. And then I was out on the orange
and, incidentally, cussing that cranky motor of yours, Karl. It was just
before twilight that I reached the edge of Thyle, and looked down over
the gray Mare Chronium. And I knew there was seventy-five miles of
Xanthus desert, and about as much more Mare Cimmerium. Was I pleased? I
daylight in getting down the cliff that bounded Thyle. I found an easy
place, and down I went. Mare Chronium was just the same sort of place as
this--crazy leafless plants and a bunch of crawlers; I gave it a glance
and hauled out my sleeping bag. Up to that time, you know, I hadn't seen
anything worth worrying about on this half-dead world--nothing
find out. There was a racket like a flock of crows eating a bunch of
canaries--whistles, cackles, caws, trills, and what have you. I rounded
near as I can pronounce it without sputtering. He called it something
tangled around what looked like, as Putz described it to you, an
ostrich. I wasn't going to interfere, naturally; if both creatures were
blows with an eighteen-inch beak, between screeches. And besides, I
caught a glimpse or two of what was on the end of those arms!" Jarvis
shuddered. "But the clincher was when I noticed a little black bag or
case hung about the neck of the bird-thing! It was intelligent! That or
tame, I assumed. Anyway, it clinched my decision. I pulled out my
then the thing, with a disgusting sucking noise, pulled itself and its
arms into a hole in the ground. The other let out a series of clacks,
staggered around on legs about as thick as golf sticks, and turned
suddenly to face me. I held my weapon ready, and the two of us stared at
just at first glance. It had a beak all right, and a few feathery
appendages, but the beak wasn't really a beak. It was somewhat flexible;
I could see the tip bend slowly from side to side; it was almost like a
cross between a beak and a trunk. It had four-toed feet, and four
fingered things--hands, you'd have to call them, and a little roundish
body, and a long neck ending in a tiny head--and that beak. It stood an
went into a series of clackings and twitterings and held out its hands
'Aw, don't mention it,' or something of the sort, and the thing came
fire or get into my thermo-skin. I decided on the fire. I picked a spot
at the base of the Thyle cliff, where the rock could reflect a little
heat on my back. I started breaking off chunks of this desiccated
Martian vegetation, and my companion caught the idea and brought in an
armful. I reached for a match, but the Martian fished into his pouch and
brought out something that looked like a glowing coal; one touch of it,
and the fire was blazing--and you all know what a job we have starting a
article, my friends; press an end and she popped open--press the middle
and she sealed so perfectly you couldn't see the line. Better than
of communication with the Martian. I pointed at myself and said 'Dick';
he caught the drift immediately, stretched a bony claw at me and
repeated 'Tick.' Then I pointed at him, and he gave that whistle I
called Tweel; I can't imitate his accent. Things were going smoothly; to
emphasize the names, I repeated 'Dick,' and then, pointing at him,
something like 'P-p-p-proot.' And that was just the beginning; I was
always 'Tick,' but as for him--part of the time he was 'Tweel,' and part
of the time he was 'P-p-p-proot,' and part of the time he was sixteen
'tree,' and 'fire,' and Lord knows what else, and try as I would, I
couldn't get a single word! Nothing was the same for two successive
minutes, and if that's a language, I'm an alchemist! Finally I gave it
which I suppose is a great achievement if you're used to a language you
have to make up as you go along. But I couldn't get the hang of his
language business, and tried mathematics. I scratched two plus two
equals four on the ground, and demonstrated it with pebbles. Again Tweel
caught the idea, and informed me that three plus three equals six. Once
a circle for the sun, pointing first at it, and then at the last glow of
the sun. Then I sketched in Mercury, and Venus, and Mother Earth, and
Mars, and finally, pointing to Mars, I swept my hand around in a sort of
inclusive gesture to indicate that Mars was our current environment. I
with a great deal of trilling and clucking, he added Deimos and Phobos
visible! And Tweel knew of Mercury because he placed the Moon at the
smoothly, and it looked as if I could put the idea over. I pointed at
the earth on my diagram, and then at myself, and then, to clinch it, I
pointed to myself and then to the earth itself shining bright green
He jumped up and down, and suddenly he pointed at himself and then at
the sky, and then at himself and at the sky again. He pointed at his
middle and then at Arcturus, at his head and then at Spica, at his feet
and then at half a dozen stars, while I just gaped at him. Then, all of
a sudden, he gave a tremendous leap. Man, what a hop! He shot straight
up into the starlight, seventy-five feet if an inch! I saw him
silhouetted against the sky, saw him turn and come down at me head
first, and land smack on his beak like a javelin! There he stuck square
pulled his head out of the sand and stood up. Then I figured he'd missed
my point, and I went through the whole blamed rigamarole again, and it
ideas up to a certain point, and then--blooey! Something in us was
different, unrelated; I don't doubt that Tweel thought me just as screwy
as I thought him. Our minds simply looked at the world from different
viewpoints, and perhaps his viewpoint is as true as ours. But--we
couldn't get together, that's all. Yet, in spite of all difficulties, I
He paused, and then resumed his narrative. "Anyway, I finally gave it
up, and got into my thermo-skin to sleep. The fire hadn't kept me any
too warm, but that damned sleeping bag did. Got stuffy five minutes
after I closed myself in. I opened it a little and bingo! Some
eighty-below-zero air hit my nose, and that's when I got this pleasant
little frostbite to add to the bump I acquired during the crash of my
woke up, he was gone. I'd just crawled out of my bag, though, when I
heard some twittering, and there he came, sailing down from that
three-story Thyle cliff to alight on his beak beside me. I pointed to
myself and toward the north, and he pointed at himself and toward the
through the air stretched out like a spear, and landing on his beak. He
seemed surprised at my plodding, but after a few moments he fell in
beside me, only every few minutes he'd go into one of his leaps, and
stick his nose into the sand a block ahead of me. Then he'd come
shooting back at me; it made me nervous at first to see that beak of his
place as this--same crazy plants and same little green biopods growing
in the sand, or crawling out of your way. We talked--not that we
understood each other, you know, but just for company. I sang songs, and
I suspect Tweel did too; at least, some of his trillings and twitterings
He'd point to an outcropping and say 'rock,' and point to a pebble and
say it again; or he'd touch my arm and say 'Tick,' and then repeat it.
He seemed terrifically amused that the same word meant the same thing
twice in succession, or that the same word could apply to two different
objects. It set me wondering if perhaps his language wasn't like the
primitive speech of some earth people--you know, Captain, like the
Negritoes, for instance, who haven't any generic words. No word for food
or water or man--words for good food and bad food, or rain water and sea
water, or strong man and weak man--but no names for general classes.
They're too primitive to understand that rain water and sea water are
just different aspects of the same thing. But that wasn't the case with
Tweel; it was just that we were somehow mysteriously different--our
"don't get the idea that there was anything screwy about Tweel. In fact,
I'm not so sure but that he couldn't teach our highly praised human
intelligence a trick or two. Oh, he wasn't an intellectual superman, I
guess; but don't overlook the point that he managed to understand a
along across the Mare Chronium all that day, and all the next. Mare
Chronium--Sea of Time! Say, I was willing to agree with Schiaparelli's
name by the end of that march! Just that grey, endless plain of weird
plants, and never a sign of any other life. It was so monotonous that I
was even glad to see the desert of Xanthus toward the evening of the
saw him drink or eat. I think he could have crossed the Mare Chronium in
a couple of hours with those block-long nose dives of his, but he stuck
along with me. I offered him some water once or twice; he took the cup
from me and sucked the liquid into his beak, and then carefully squirted
nasty sand clouds blew along, not as bad as the one we had here, but
mean to travel against. I pulled the transparent flap of my thermo-skin
bag across my face and managed pretty well, and I noticed that Tweel
used some feathery appendages growing like a mustache at the base of his
desiccated pill called Mars. We'd call all of it desert on earth, you
know." He paused. "Anyway, after the sand storm blew over, a little wind
kept blowing in our faces, not strong enough to stir the sand. But
suddenly things came drifting along from the Xanthus cliffs--small,
transparent spheres, for all the world like glass tennis balls! But
light--they were almost light enough to float even in this thin
air--empty, too; at least, I cracked open a couple and nothing came out
but a bad smell. I asked Tweel about them, but all he said was 'No, no,
no,' which I took to mean that he knew nothing about them. So they went
bouncing by like tumbleweeds, or like soap bubbles, and we plugged on
toward Xanthus. Tweel pointed at one of the crystal balls once and said
'rock,' but I was too tired to argue with him. Later I discovered what
much daylight left. I decided to sleep on the plateau if possible;
anything dangerous, I reasoned, would be more likely to prowl through
the vegetation of the Mare Chronium than the sand of Xanthus. Not that
I'd seen a single sign of menace, except the rope-armed black thing that
had trapped Tweel, and apparently that didn't prowl at all, but lured
its victims within reach. It couldn't lure me while I slept, especially
as Tweel didn't seem to sleep at all, but simply sat patiently around
all night. I wondered how the creature had managed to trap Tweel, but
there wasn't any way of asking him. I found that out too, later; it's
for an easy spot to climb. At least, I was. Tweel could have leaped it
easily, for the cliffs were lower than Thyle--perhaps sixty feet. I
found a place and started up, swearing at the water tank strapped to my
back--it didn't bother me except when climbing--and suddenly I heard a
the pop of a cork. But this sound was the drone of a rocket, and sure
enough, there went our second auxiliary about ten miles to westward,
and yelled and waved with one hand. Tweel saw it too, and set up a
trilling and twittering, leaping to the top of the barrier and then high
into the air. And while I watched, the machine droned on into the
trilling excitedly, shooting up toward the sky and coming down head-on
to stick upside down on his beak in the sand. I pointed toward the south
and at myself, and he said, 'Yes--Yes--Yes'; but somehow I gathered that
he thought the flying thing was a relative of mine, probably a parent.
pulled out my thermo-skin bag and crawled into it, as the night chill
was already apparent. Tweel stuck his beak into the sand and drew up his
legs and arms and looked for all the world like one of those leafless
a hundred yards into Xanthus when I saw something queer! This is one
inches high, stretching across Xanthus as far as I could see! Little
buildings made of pygmy bricks, they were, hollow inside and truncated,
or at least broken at the top and empty. I pointed at them and said
'What?' to Tweel, but he gave some negative twitters to indicate, I
suppose, that he didn't know. So off we went, following the row of
queer thing: they were getting larger. Same number of bricks in each
same, broken at the top and empty. I examined a brick or two as well;
ones we saw in the morning were older--perhaps ten times as old.
knows?" Jarvis paused a moment. "Well," he resumed, "we followed the
line. Tweel pointed at them and said 'rock' once or twice, but he'd done
indicated the two of us. He set up a negative sort of clucking and said,
'No, no, no. No one-one-two. No two-two-four,' meanwhile rubbing his
stomach. I just stared at him and he went through the business again.
a very complex idea. What, let me ask, does mathematics make you think
the pyramids weren't people--or that they weren't intelligent, that they
biopods prove that!" Jarvis grinned and took up his narrative. "Anyway,
we plugged along across Xanthus and in about the middle of the
ten-footers--was capped! See? Whatever built it was still inside; we'd
(I had a clip of Boland explosive bullets in it) and Tweel, quick as a
sleight-of-hand trick, snapped a queer little glass revolver out of his
bag. It was much like our weapons, except that the grip was larger to
accommodate his four-taloned hand. And we held our weapons ready while
shaking, and suddenly slid down the sides with a thin crash. And
Armored, I mean, with scales, silver-grey and dull-shining. The arm
sort of mouth-hole at one end; stiff, pointed tail at the other--and
that's all. No other limbs, no eyes, ears, nose--nothing! The thing
dragged itself a few yards, inserted its pointed tail in the sand,
creaking and rustling like--oh, like crumpling stiff paper--its arm
moved to the mouth-hole and out came a brick! The arm placed the brick
I was about to slip away and move on when Tweel pointed at the thing and
said 'rock'! I went 'huh?' and he said it again. Then, to the
accompaniment of some of his trilling, he said, 'No--no--,' and gave two
demonstrated the word. Tweel was ecstatic; he said, 'Yes, yes, yes! No,
no, no breet!' Then he gave a leap and sailed out to land on his nose
I expected to see Tweel caught and mangled, but--nothing happened! Tweel
pounded on the creature, and the arm took the brick and placed it neatly
beside the first. Tweel rapped on its body again, and said 'rock,' and I
been pure silicon in the sand, and it lived on that. Get it? We, and
life; this thing lived by a different set of chemical reactions. It was
thing was, alive and yet not alive, moving every ten minutes, and then
only to remove a brick. Those bricks were its waste matter. See,
Frenchy? We're carbon, and our waste is carbon dioxide, and this thing
solid, hence the bricks. And it builds itself in, and when it is
covered, it moves over to a fresh place to start over. No wonder it
the original pyramid builder, the series would have ended somewhere
before we found him, wouldn't it?--ended and started over with the small
was a little rustle and out popped a whole stream of those little
crystal balls. They're his spores, or eggs, or seeds--call 'em what you
want. They went bouncing by across Xanthus just as they'd bounced by us
back in the Mare Chronium. I've a hunch how they work, too--this is for
your information, Leroy. I think the crystal shell of silica is no more
than a protective covering, like an eggshell, and that the active
principle is the smell inside. It's some sort of gas that attacks
silicon, and if the shell is broken near a supply of that element, some
to come back in about ten thousand years to see if I planted some
pyramid monsters? You'd most likely be able to tell by that time!"
Jarvis paused and drew a deep breath. "Lord! That queer creature! Do you
picture it? Blind, deaf, nerveless, brainless--just a mechanism, and
yet--immortal! Bound to go on making bricks, building pyramids, as long
as silicon and oxygen exist, and even afterwards it'll just stop. It
won't be dead. If the accidents of a million years bring it its food
again, there it'll be, ready to run again, while brains and
civilizations are part of the past. A queer beast--yet I met a stranger
dream-beast! That's the best name for it--and it's the most fiendish,
terrifying creation one could imagine! More dangerous than a lion, more
left the pyramid creature and plowed along through Xanthus. I was tired
and a little disheartened by Putz's failure to pick me up, and Tweel's
trilling got on my nerves, as did his flying nosedives. So I just strode
horizon. I knew what it was. It was a canal; I'd crossed it in the
rocket and it meant that we were just one-third of the way across
Xanthus. Pleasant thought, wasn't it? And still, I was keeping up to
from that I jumped to reflections of how nice and home-like even Borneo
would seem after this crazy planet, and from that, to thoughts of little
old New York, and then to thinking about a girl I know there--Fancy
Well, I was thinking about her, feeling pretty lonesome, and all the
Long, standing plain as day under one of those crack-brained trees, and
my eyes and then stared again--and every time, there was Fancy Long
smiling and waving! Tweel saw something, too; he was trilling and
clucking away, but I scarcely heard him. I was bounding toward her over
flying leaps. He grabbed my arm, yelling, 'No--no--no!' in his squeaky
voice. I tried to shake him off--he was as light as if he were built of
bamboo--but he dug his claws in and yelled. And finally some sort of
sanity returned to me and I stopped less than ten feet from her. There
waving, but looking as real as if I hadn't left her thirty-seven million
but he tried to push me away. He pointed at her and said, 'No breet! No
breet!' and I understood that he meant that the Fancy Long thing wasn't
don't know why I stood there watching him take careful aim, but I did.
Then he squeezed the handle of his weapon; there was a little puff of
steam, and Fancy Long was gone! And in her place was one of those
trilled and whistled. Finally he touched my arm, pointed at the twisting
thing, and said, 'You one-one-two, he one-one-two.' After he'd repeated
desires to trap its prey. The bird at nesting season would see its mate,
very jaws? And aren't there deep-sea fish that lure their victims into
their mouths? Lord!" Jarvis shuddered. "Do you see how insidious the
monster is? We're warned now--but henceforth we can't trust even our
eyes. You might see me--I might see one of you--and back of it may be
possibly have interested me, and when I started to run, he realized
that I saw something different and was warned. Or perhaps the
dream-beast can only project a single vision, and Tweel saw what I
saw--or nothing. I couldn't ask him. But it's just another proof that
he said as much. Yet he recognized it as a dead-alive automaton of
and he learned six or seven words of mine. And do you realize what
complex ideas he put over with no more than those six or seven words?
The pyramid-monster--the dream-beast! In a single phrase he told me that
one was a harmless automaton and the other a deadly hypnotist. What
English? Could you go even further, as Tweel did, and tell me that
another creature was of a sort of intelligence so different from ours
that understanding was impossible--even more impossible than that
our friendship. Somewhere on Mars--and you'll find I'm right--is a
civilization and culture equal to ours, and maybe more than equal. And
communication is possible between them and us; Tweel proves that. It may
take years of patient trial, for their minds are alien, but less alien
resumed his narrative. "I thought the dream-beast and the
silicon-monster were the strangest beings conceivable, but I was wrong.
These creatures are still more alien, less understandable than either
and far less comprehensible than Tweel, with whom friendship is
possible, and even, by patience and concentration, the exchange of
back into its hole, and we moved toward the canal. There was a carpet of
that queer walking-grass scampering out of our way, and when we reached
the bank, there was a yellow trickle of water flowing. The mound city
I'd noticed from the rocket was a mile or so to the right and I was
creatures were lurking in it--well, Tweel and I were both armed. And by
the way, that crystal weapon of Tweel's was an interesting device; I
took a look at it after the dream-beast episode. It fired a little glass
splinter, poisoned, I suppose, and I guess it held at least a hundred of
handle and about a gill of another liquid, thick and yellowish. When
Tweel squeezed the handle--there was no trigger--a drop of water and a
drop of the yellow stuff squirted into the firing chamber, and the water
vaporized--pop!--like that. It's not so difficult; I think we could
develop the same principle. Concentrated sulphuric acid will heat water
almost to boiling, and so will quicklime, and there's potassium and
Western movie. It was effective, too, at least against Martian life; I
tried it out, aiming at one of the crazy plants, and darned if the plant
didn't wither up and fall apart! That's why I think the glass splinters
whether the city builders dug the canals. I pointed to the city and then
at the canal, and Tweel said 'No--no--no!' and gestured toward the
south. I took it to mean that some other race had created the canal
system, perhaps Tweel's people. I don't know; maybe there's still
another intelligent race on the planet, or a dozen others. Mars is a
hard-packed mud trail, and then, all of a sudden, along came one of the
trotting along on four legs with four other arms or tentacles. It had no
head, just body and members and a row of eyes completely around it. The
top end of the barrel-body was a diaphragm stretched as tight as a drum
head, and that was all. It was pushing a little coppery cart and tore
right past us like the proverbial bat out of Hell. It didn't even notice
us, although I thought the eyes on my side shifted a little as it
thing--it just scooted past us. Well, I wasn't going to be ignored by a
bunch of barrels playing train, so when the third one approached, I
planted myself in the way--ready to jump, of course, if the thing didn't
on top. And I held out both hands and said, 'We are friends!' And what
diaphragm, and then suddenly boomed out, 'We are v-r-r-riends!' and gave
its pushcart a vicious poke at me! I jumped aside, and away it went
but simply drummed out, 'We are v-r-r-riends!' and scurried by. How did
it learn the phrase? Were all of the creatures in some sort of
communication with each other? Were they all parts of some central
us with the same statement. It got to be funny; I never thought to
find so many friends on this God-forsaken ball! Finally I made a
puzzled gesture to Tweel; I guess he understood, for he said,
out this way. 'One-one-two--yes!' The creatures were intelligent.
'Two-two-four--no!' Their intelligence was not of our order, but
something different and beyond the logic of two and two is four. Maybe I
missed his meaning. Perhaps he meant that their minds were of low
degree, able to figure out the simple things--'One-one-two--yes!'--but
not more difficult things--'Two-two-four--no!' But I think from what we
another. Their pushcarts were full of stones, sand, chunks of rubbery
plants, and such rubbish as that. They droned out their friendly
greeting, which didn't really sound so friendly, and dashed on. The
third one I assumed to be my first acquaintance and I decided to have
at him; four or five of his eyes looked at me. He tried his password
again and gave a shove on his cart, but I stood firm. And then the--the
dashed creature reached out one of his arms, and two finger-like nippers
frostbite on that nose. Anyway, I yelled 'Ouch!' and jumped aside and
the creature dashed away; but from then on, their greeting was 'We are
creatures were coming and going, paying us not the slightest attention,
fetching their loads of rubbish. The road simply dived into an opening,
and slanted down like an old mine, and in and out darted the
see it. It didn't look like a flame or torch, you understand, but more
like a civilized light, and I thought that I might get some clue as to
the creatures' development. So in I went and Tweel tagged along, not
but came from a single black rod set in the wall of the corridor. It
was electric, beyond doubt. The creatures were fairly civilized,
on to look at that, but it was only a heap of shiny sand. I turned
Anyway, I walked back in that direction I thought we'd come, and all I
saw was more dimlit corridor. The place was a labyrinth! There was
nothing but twisting passages running every way, lit by occasional
lights, and now and then a creature running by, sometimes with a
steps from the entrance. But every move we made after that seemed to get
us in deeper. Finally I tried following one of the creatures with an
empty cart, thinking that he'd be going out for his rubbish, but he ran
around aimlessly, into one passage and out another. When he started
dashing around a pillar like one of these Japanese waltzing mice, I gave
sort of helpless trill. And we couldn't get any help from the natives.
They paid no attention at all, except to assure us they were
slept twice from sheer exhaustion; Tweel never seemed to need sleep. We
tried following only the upward corridors, but they'd run uphill a ways
and then curve downwards. The temperature in that damned ant hill was
constant; you couldn't tell night from day and after my first sleep I
didn't know whether I'd slept one hour or thirteen, so I couldn't tell
the corridors, but they didn't seem to be doing anything--just wheels
turning. And several times I saw two barrel-beasts with a little one
all, except, as I say, to greet us with 'We are v-r-r-riends! Ouch!'
They seemed to have no home-life of any sort, but just scurried around
with their pushcarts, bringing in rubbish. And finally I discovered what
great distance. I was feeling that we ought to be close to the surface
when suddenly the passage debouched into a domed chamber, the only one
we'd seen. And man!--I felt like dancing when I saw what looked like
that turned slowly, and one of the creatures was in the act of dumping
his rubbish below it. The wheel ground it with a crunch--sand, stones,
plants, all into powder that sifted away somewhere. While we watched,
others filed in, repeating the process, and that seemed to be all. No
rhyme nor reason to the whole thing--but that's characteristic of this
crazy planet. And there was another fact that's almost too bizarre to
with a crash and calmly shoved himself under the wheel! I watched him
being crushed, too stupefied to make a sound, and a moment later,
another followed him! They were perfectly methodical about it, too; one
he just gave the most human-like shrug imaginable, as much as to say,
'What can I do about it?' He must have known more or less about these
something shining on a sort of low pedestal. I walked over; there was a
little crystal about the size of an egg, fluorescing to beat Tophet. The
light from it stung my hands and face, almost like a static discharge,
and then I noticed another funny thing. Remember that wart I had on my
left thumb? Look!" Jarvis extended his hand. "It dried up and fell
off--just like that! And my abused nose--say, the pain went out of it
like magic! The thing had the property of hard x-rays or gamma
radiations, only more so; it destroyed diseased tissue and left healthy
when a lot of racket interrupted. We dashed back to the other side of
the wheel in time to see one of the pushcarts ground up. Some suicide
their noise was decidedly menacing. A crowd of them advanced toward us;
we backed out of what I thought was the passage we'd entered by, and
they came rumbling after us, some pushing carts and some not. Crazy
brutes! There was a whole chorus of 'We are v-r-r-riends! Ouch!' I
freedom and got mine. We backed up the corridor with the barrel-beasts
following--about twenty of them. Queer thing--the ones coming in with
coal cigar-lighter of his and touched a cart-load of plant limbs. Puff!
The whole load was burning--and the crazy beast pushing it went right
along without a change of pace! It created some disturbance among our
'V-r-r-riends,' however--and then I noticed the smoke eddying and
daylight felt like Heaven, though I saw at first glance that the sun was
all but set, and that was bad, since I couldn't live outside my
two mounds, and there we stood. I hadn't fired nor had Tweel; there
wasn't any use in irritating the brutes. They stopped a little distance
and they all grabbed into it and came out with handfuls of foot-long
copper darts--sharp-looking ones--and all of a sudden one sailed past my
the pushcart and managed to keep the darts at a minimum, but suddenly
there was a thunderous booming of 'v-r-r-riends' and 'ouches,' and a
He could have leaped the mound behind us as easily as not. He was
first, but whether I'd have had gratitude to do what he was
as much for me, hadn't he? I grabbed his arm, and said 'Tweel,' and
pointed up, and he understood. He said, 'No--no--no, Tick!' and popped
explain that to him. I said, 'Thanks, Tweel. You're a man!' and felt
that I wasn't paying him any compliment at all. A man! There are mighty
barrels were throwing darts and getting ready to rush us, and booming
about being friends. I had given up hope. Then suddenly an angel dropped
right down from Heaven in the shape of Putz, with his under-jets
and in I went, laughing and crying and shouting! It was a moment or so
before I remembered Tweel; I looked around in time to see him rising in
the rocket aloft, darkness was down; you know how it comes here--like
turning off a light. We sailed out over the desert and put down once or
twice. I yelled 'Tweel!' and yelled it a hundred times, I guess. We
couldn't find him; he could travel like the wind and all I got--or else
I imagined it--was a faint trilling and twittering drifting out of the
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you
are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
    the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
    you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
    to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
    agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
    Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
    within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
    legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
    payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
    Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
    Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
    Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
    you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
    does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
    License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
    copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
    all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
    works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
    any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
    electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
    receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
    distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
