
                       and Other Stories

                       By E. M. FORSTER

                           New York

                   HARCOURT, BRACE &amp; COMPANY

                      COPYRIGHT, 1928, BY
               HARCOURT, BRACE AND COMPANY, INC.

                  PRINTED IN THE U. S. A. BY
                  QUINN &amp; BODEN COMPANY, INC.
                         RAHWAY, N. J.




                             _To_
                             T. E.
                        IN THE ABSENCE
                       OF ANYTHING ELSE
that I am likely to accomplish in a particular line. Much has happened
since; transport has been disorganised, frontiers rectified on the
map and in the spirit, and under the mass-shock of facts Fantasy has
tended to retreat or at all events to dig herself in. She can be
caught in the open here by those who care to catch her. She flits over
the scenes of Italian and English holidays, or wings her way with
even less justification towards the countries of the future. She or
he. For Fantasy, though often a lady, sometimes resembles a man, and
even functions for Hermes who used to do the smaller behests of the
gods--messenger, machine-breaker, and conductor of souls to a not too
by courtesy of its editor; the rest, as far as I know, have never been


                       THE MACHINE STOPS

                       THE POINT OF IT

                       MR. ANDREWS

                       CO-ORDINATION

                       THE STORY OF THE SIREN

                       THE ETERNAL MOMENT




                       THE MACHINE STOPS


                           _Part I_

                         THE AIR-SHIP
a bee. It is lighted neither by window nor by lamp, yet it is filled
with a soft radiance. There are no apertures for ventilation, yet the
air is fresh. There are no musical instruments, and yet, at the moment
that my meditation opens, this room is throbbing with melodious sounds.
An arm-chair is in the centre, by its side a reading-desk--that is
all the furniture. And in the arm-chair there sits a swaddled lump of
flesh--a woman, about five feet high, with a face as white as a fungus.
motion. The chair, like the music, was worked by machinery, and it
rolled her to the other side of the room, where the bell still rang
interrupted often since the music began. She knew several thousand
anything important will happen for the next five minutes--for I can
give you fully five minutes, Kuno. Then I must deliver my lecture on
her. Then she touched the lighting apparatus, and the little room was
held in her hands began to glow. A faint blue light shot across it,
darkening to purple, and presently she could see the image of her son,
believe that you pray to it when you are unhappy. Men made it, do not
forget that. Great men, but men. The Machine is much, but it is not
everything. I see something like you in this plate, but I do not see
you. I hear something like you through this telephone, but I do not
hear you. That is why I want you to come. Come and stop with me. Pay
me a visit, so that we can meet face to face, and talk about the hopes
close together in the middle of the oblong, and hanging from these
stars in the middle are like the belts that men wore once, and the
of expression. It only gave a general idea of people--an idea that
was good enough for all practical purposes, Vashti thought. The
imponderable bloom, declared by a discredited philosophy to be the
actual essence of intercourse, was rightly ignored by the Machine, just
as the imponderable bloom of the grape was ignored by the manufacturers
of artificial fruit. Something "good enough" had long since been
They are curious stars. I want to see them not from the air-ship, but
from the surface of the earth, as our ancestors did, thousands of
surface of the earth is only dust and mud, no life remains on it, and
you would need a respirator, or the cold of the outer air would kill
radiance and studded with electric buttons, revived her. There were
buttons and switches everywhere--buttons to call for food, for music,
for clothing. There was the hot-bath button, by pressure of which a
basin of (imitation) marble rose out of the floor, filled to the brim
with a warm deodorised liquid. There was the cold-bath button. There
was the button that produced literature. And there were of course the
buttons by which she communicated with her friends. The room, though
it contained nothing, was in touch with all that she cared for in the
accumulations of the last three minutes burst upon her. The room was
filled with the noise of bells, and speaking-tubes. What was the new
food like? Could she recommend it? Had she had any ideas lately? Might
one tell her one's own ideas? Would she make an engagement to visit the
quality in that accelerated age. She said that the new food was
horrible. That she could not visit the public nurseries through press
of engagements. That she had no ideas of her own but had just been
told one--that four stars and three in the middle were like a man: she
doubted there was much in it. Then she switched off her correspondents,
neither Vashti nor her audience stirred from their rooms. Seated in
her arm-chair she spoke, while they in their arm-chairs heard her,
fairly well, and saw her, fairly well. She opened with a humorous
account of music in the pre-Mongolian epoch, and went on to describe
the great outburst of song that followed the Chinese conquest. Remote
and primæval as were the methods of I-San-So and the Brisbane school,
she yet felt (she said) that study of them might repay the musician of
conclusion she and many of her audience listened to a lecture on the
sea; there were ideas to be got from the sea; the speaker had donned a
respirator and visited it lately. Then she fed, talked to many friends,
for a small bed. Complaint was useless, for beds were of the same
dimension all over the world, and to have had an alternative size
would have involved vast alterations in the Machine. Vashti isolated
herself--it was necessary, for neither day nor night existed under the
ground--and reviewed all that had happened since she had summoned the
of litter--one book. This was the Book of the Machine. In it were
instructions against every possible contingency. If she was hot or
cold or dyspeptic or at loss for a word, she went to the book, and it
told her which button to press. The Central Committee published it. In
round the glowing room as if some one might be watching her. Then, half
ashamed, half joyful, she murmured "O Machine! O Machine!" and raised
the volume to her lips. Thrice she kissed it, thrice inclined her head,
thrice she felt the delirium of acquiescence. Her ritual performed,
she turned to page 1367, which gave the times of the departure of the
air-ships from the island in the southern hemisphere, under whose soil
she lived, to the island in the northern hemisphere, whereunder lived
she ate and exchanged ideas with her friends, and listened to music
and attended lectures; she made the room dark and slept. Above her,
beneath her, and around her, the Machine hummed eternally; she did not
notice the noise, for she had been born with it in her ears. The earth,
carrying her, hummed as it sped through silence, turning her now to the
invisible sun, now to the invisible stars. She awoke and made the room
in her chair palpitating. Think of her as without teeth or hair.
Presently she directed the chair to the wall, and pressed an unfamiliar
button. The wall swung apart slowly. Through the opening she saw a
tunnel that curved slightly, so that its goal was not visible. Should
nothing mysterious in it. She would summon a car and it would fly with
her down the tunnel until it reached the lift that communicated with
the air-ship station: the system had been in use for many, many years,
long before the universal establishment of the Machine. And of course
she had studied the civilisation that had immediately preceded her
own--the civilisation that had mistaken the functions of the system,
and had used it for bringing people to things, instead of for bringing
things to people. Those funny old days, when men went for change of air
instead of changing the air in their rooms! And yet--she was frightened
of the tunnel: she had not seen it since her last child was born. It
curved--but not quite as she remembered; it was brilliant--but not
quite as brilliant as a lecturer had suggested. Vashti was seized with
the terrors of direct experience. She shrank back into the room, and
thermometer was automatically inserted between her lips, a stethoscope
was automatically laid upon her heart. She lay powerless. Cool pads
Vashti drank the medicine that the doctor projected into her mouth, and
the machinery retired into the ceiling. The voice of Kuno was heard
nurseries, her one visit to him there, his visits to her--visits which
stopped when the Machine had assigned him a room on the other side of
the earth. "Parents, duties of," said the book of the Machine, "cease
at the moment of birth. P. 422327483." True, but there was something
special about Kuno--indeed there had been something special about
all her children--and, after all, she must brave the journey if he
desired it. And "something tremendous might happen." What did that
mean? The nonsense of a youthful man, no doubt, but she must go. Again
she pressed the unfamiliar button, again the wall swung back, and she
saw the tunnel that curved out of sight. Clasping the Book, she rose,
tottered on to the platform, and summoned the car. Her room closed
found arm-chairs exactly like her own. When she signalled, it stopped,
and she tottered into the lift. One other passenger was in the lift,
the first fellow creature she had seen face to face for months. Few
travelled in these days, for, thanks to the advance of science, the
earth was exactly alike all over. Rapid intercourse, from which the
previous civilisation had hoped so much, had ended by defeating itself.
What was the good of going to Pekin when it was just like Shrewsbury?
Why return to Shrewsbury when it would be just like Pekin? Men seldom
because it was easier to keep it up than to stop it or to diminish
it, but it now far exceeded the wants of the population. Vessel after
vessel would rise from the vomitories of Rye or of Christchurch (I use
the antique names), would sail into the crowded sky, and would draw up
at the wharves of the south--empty. So nicely adjusted was the system,
so independent of meteorology, that the sky, whether calm or cloudy,
resembled a vast kaleidoscope whereon the same patterns periodically
recurred. The ship on which Vashti sailed started now at sunset, now
at dawn. But always, as it passed above Rheims, it would neighbour the
ship that served between Helsingfors and the Brazils, and, every third
time it surmounted the Alps, the fleet of Palermo would cross its track
behind. Night and day, wind and storm, tide and earthquake, impeded man
no longer. He had harnessed Leviathan. All the old literature, with its
praise of Nature, and its fear of Nature, rang false as the prattle of
to the outer air, her horror of direct experience returned. It was
not quite like the air-ship in the cinematophote. For one thing it
smelt--not strongly or unpleasantly, but it did smell, and with her
eyes shut she should have known that a new thing was close to her. Then
she had to walk to it from the lift, had to submit to glances from the
other passengers. The man in front dropped his Book--no great matter,
but it disquieted them all. In the rooms, if the Book was dropped, the
floor raised it mechanically, but the gangway to the air-ship was not
so prepared, and the sacred volume lay motionless. They stopped--the
thing was unforeseen--and the man, instead of picking up his property,
felt the muscles of his arm to see how they had failed him. Then some
one actually said with direct utterance: "We shall be late"--and they
rough. There was even a female attendant, to whom she would have to
announce her wants during the voyage. Of course a revolving platform
ran the length of the boat, but she was expected to walk from it to her
cabin. Some cabins were better than others, and she did not get the
best. She thought the attendant had been unfair, and spasms of rage
shook her. The glass valves had closed, she could not go back. She saw,
at the end of the vestibule, the lift in which she had ascended going
quietly up and down, empty. Beneath those corridors of shining tiles
were rooms, tier below tier, reaching far into the earth, and in each
room there sat a human being, eating, or sleeping, or producing ideas.
passages that we see in dreams, the lift vanished, the Book that had
been dropped slid to the left and vanished, polished tiles rushed
by like a stream of water, there was a slight jar, and the air-ship,
phosphorescence of waves, and crowned by lighthouses, still sending
forth their disregarded beams. These also vanished, and only the
stars distracted her. They were not motionless, but swayed to and fro
above her head, thronging out of one skylight into another, as if the
universe and not the air-ship was careening. And, as often happens on
clear nights, they seemed now to be in perspective, now on a plane;
now piled tier beyond tier into the infinite heavens, now concealing
infinity, a roof limiting for ever the visions of men. In either case
they seemed intolerable. "Are we to travel in the dark?" called the
passengers angrily, and the attendant, who had been careless, generated
the light, and pulled down the blinds of pliable metal. When the
air-ships had been built, the desire to look direct at things still
lingered in the world. Hence the extraordinary number of skylights and
windows, and the proportionate discomfort to those who were civilised
and refined. Even in Vashti's cabin one star peeped through a flaw in
the blind, and after a few hours' uneasy slumber, she was disturbed by
quicker still, and had dragged back Vashti and her companions towards
the sun. Science could prolong the night, but only for a little,
and those high hopes of neutralising the earth's diurnal revolution
had passed, together with hopes that were possibly higher. To "keep
pace with the sun," or even to outstrip it, had been the aim of the
civilisation preceding this. Racing aeroplanes had been built for
the purpose, capable of enormous speed, and steered by the greatest
intellects of the epoch. Round the globe they went, round and round,
westward, westward, round and round, amidst humanity's applause. In
vain. The globe went eastward quicker still, horrible accidents
occurred, and the Committee of the Machine, at the time rising into
prominence, declared the pursuit illegal, unmechanical, and punishable
aroused the last common interest that our race experienced about the
heavenly bodies, or indeed about anything. It was the last time that
men were compacted by thinking of a power outside the world. The sun
had conquered, yet it was the end of his spiritual dominion. Dawn,
midday, twilight, the zodiacal path, touched neither men's lives nor
their hearts, and science retreated into the ground, to concentrate
she was annoyed, and tried to adjust the blind. But the blind flew
up altogether, and she saw through the skylight small pink clouds,
swaying against a background of blue, and as the sun crept higher, its
radiance entered direct, brimming down the wall, like a golden sea. It
rose and fell with the air-ship's motion, just as waves rise and fall,
but it advanced steadily, as a tide advances. Unless she was careful,
it would strike her face. A spasm of horror shook her and she rang
for the attendant. The attendant too was horrified, but she could do
nothing; it was not her place to mend the blind. She could only suggest
that the lady should change her cabin, which she accordingly prepared
of the air-ship, perhaps owing to her exceptional duties, had grown
a little out of the common. She had often to address passengers
with direct speech, and this had given her a certain roughness and
originality of manner. When Vashti swerved away from the sunbeams with
People never touched one another. The custom had become obsolete, owing
a metal blind. The main chain of the Himalayas was revealed. "They were
to be an impenetrable wall that touched the stars. It was supposed
that no one but the gods could exist above their summits. How we have
who had dropped his Book the night before, and who was standing in the
slope the sun had just prevailed. The forests had been destroyed
during the literature epoch for the purpose of making newspaper-pulp,
but the snows were awakening to their morning glory, and clouds still
hung on the breasts of Kinchinjunga. In the plain were seen the ruins
of cities, with diminished rivers creeping by their walls, and by the
sides of these were sometimes the signs of vomitories, marking the
cities of today. Over the whole prospect air-ships rushed, crossing and
they desired to escape the perturbations of the lower atmosphere and to
avoiding one another with an almost physical repulsion and longing to
be once more under the surface of the earth. There were eight or ten of
them, mostly young males, sent out from the public nurseries to inhabit
the rooms of those who had died in various parts of the earth. The man
who had dropped his Book was on the homeward journey. He had been sent
to Sumatra for the purpose of propagating the race. Vashti alone was
crossing another range of mountains, but she could see little, owing to
clouds. Masses of black rock hovered below her, and merged indistinctly
into grey. Their shapes were fantastic; one of them resembled a

                     THE MENDING APPARATUS
sliding door--by reversing all the steps of her departure did Vashti
arrive at her son's room, which exactly resembled her own. She might
well declare that the visit was superfluous. The buttons, the knobs,
the reading-desk with the Book, the temperature, the atmosphere, the
illumination--all were exactly the same. And if Kuno himself, flesh of
her flesh, stood close beside her at last, what profit was there in
the development of my soul. It is not worth it, Kuno, it is not worth
it. My time is too precious. The sunlight almost touched me, and I have
met with the rudest people. I can only stop a few minutes. Say what
legal, perfectly mechanical, to visit the surface of the earth. I have
lately been to a lecture on the sea; there is no objection to that; one
simply summons a respirator and gets an Egression-permit. It is not the
kind of thing that spiritually-minded people do, and I begged you not
it irreligious of me to have found out a way of my own. It was just
advanced. I don't think you irreligious, for there is no such thing as
religion left. All the fear and the superstition that existed once have
been destroyed by the Machine. I only meant that to find out a way of
examined at birth, and all who promised undue strength were destroyed.
Humanitarians may protest, but it would have been no true kindness to
let an athlete live; he would never have been happy in that state of
life to which the Machine had called him; he would have yearned for
trees to climb, rivers to bathe in, meadows and hills against which he
might measure his body. Man must be adapted to his surroundings, must
he not? In the dawn of the world our weakly must be exposed on Mount
Taygetus, in its twilight our strong will suffer euthanasia, that the
Machine may progress, that the Machine may progress, that the Machine
annihilated,' but we have annihilated not space, but the sense thereof.
We have lost a part of ourselves. I determined to recover it, and I
began by walking up and down the platform of the railway outside my
room. Up and down, until I was tired, and so did recapture the meaning
quickly. 'Far' is a place to which I cannot get quickly on my feet;
the vomitory is 'far,' though I could be there in thirty-eight seconds
by summoning the train. Man is the measure. That was my first lesson.
Man's feet are the measure for distance, his hands are the measure
for ownership, his body is the measure for all that is lovable and
desirable and strong. Then I went further: it was then that I called to
earth, with only the vomitories protruding. Having paced the platform
outside my own room, I took the lift to the next platform and paced
that also, and so with each in turn, until I came to the topmost, above
which begins the earth. All the platforms were exactly alike, and all
that I gained by visiting them was to develop my sense of space and
my muscles. I think I should have been content with this--it is not a
little thing--but as I walked and brooded, it occurred to me that our
cities had been built in the days when men still breathed the outer
air, and that there had been ventilation shafts for the workmen. I
could think of nothing but these ventilation shafts. Had they been
destroyed by all the food-tubes and medicine-tubes and music-tubes
that the Machine has evolved lately? Or did traces of them remain? One
thing was certain. If I came upon them anywhere, it would be in the
railway-tunnels of the topmost story. Everywhere else, all space was
or that your answers never depressed me. It is not the proper thing, it
is not mechanical, it is not decent to walk along a railway-tunnel.
I did not fear that I might tread upon a live rail and be killed. I
feared something far more intangible--doing what was not contemplated
by the Machine. Then I said to myself, 'Man is the measure,' and I
light; darkness is the exception. So when I saw a black gap in the
tiles, I knew that it was an exception, and rejoiced. I put in my
arm--I could put in no more at first--and waved it round and round
in ecstasy. I loosened another tile, and put in my head, and shouted
into the darkness: 'I am coming, I shall do it yet,' and my voice
reverberated down endless passages. I seemed to hear the spirits of
those dead workmen who had returned each evening to the starlight and
to their wives, and all the generations who had lived in the open air
had lately asked to be a father, and his request had been refused by
into the hole. I had done enough for one day, so I crawled back to the
platform, went down in the lift, and summoned my bed. Ah, what dreams!
I determined to get in at the hole and climb the shaft. And so I
exercised my arms. Day after day I went through ridiculous movements,
until my flesh ached, and I could hang by my hands and hold the pillow
of my bed outstretched for many minutes. Then I summoned a respirator,
some more tiles in, and clambered after them into the darkness, and the
spirits of the dead comforted me. I don't know what I mean by that.
I just say what I felt. I felt, for the first time, that a protest
had been lodged against corruption, and that even as the dead were
comforting me, so I was comforting the unborn. I felt that humanity
existed, and that it existed without clothes. How can I possibly
explain this? It was naked, humanity seemed naked, and all these tubes
and buttons and machineries neither came into the world with us, nor
will they follow us out, nor do they matter supremely while we are
here. Had I been strong, I would have torn off every garment I had, and
gone out into the outer air unswaddled. But this is not for me, nor
perhaps for my generation. I climbed with my respirator and my hygienic
railway fell upon its lowest rungs, and I saw that it led straight
upwards out of the rubble at the bottom of the shaft. Perhaps our
ancestors ran up and down it a dozen times daily, in their building. As
I climbed, the rough edges cut through my gloves so that my hands bled.
The light helped me for a little, and then came darkness and, worse
still, silence which pierced my ears like a sword. The Machine hums!
Did you know that? Its hum penetrates our blood, and may even guide our
thoughts. Who knows! I was getting beyond its power. Then I thought:
'This silence means that I am doing wrong.' But I heard voices in the
silence, and again they strengthened me." He laughed. "I had need of
the outer air. You may have noticed them on the air-ship. Pitch dark,
my feet on the rungs of an invisible ladder, my hands cut; I cannot
explain how I lived through this part, but the voices still comforted
me, and I felt for fastenings. The stopper, I suppose, was about eight
feet across. I passed my hand over it as far as I could reach. It was
perfectly smooth. I felt it almost to the centre. Not quite to the
centre, for my arm was too short. Then the voice said: 'Jump. It is
worth it. There may be a handle in the centre, and you may catch hold
of it and so come to us your own way. And if there is no handle, so
that you may fall and are dashed to pieces--it is still worth it: you
will still come to us your own way.' So I jumped. There was a handle,
fated. If he did not die today he would die tomorrow. There was not
room for such a person in the world. And with her pity disgust mingled.
She was ashamed at having borne such a son, she who had always been so
respectable and so full of ideas. Was he really the little boy to whom
she had taught the use of his stops and buttons, and to whom she had
given his first lessons in the Book? The very hair that disfigured his
lip showed that he was reverting to some savage type. On atavism the
darkness and heard the hum of these workings as the last whisper in
a dying dream. All the things I had cared about and all the people
I had spoken to through tubes appeared infinitely little. Meanwhile
the handle revolved. My weight had set something in motion and I span
poured from my nose and ears and I heard a tremendous roaring. The
stopper, with me clinging to it, had simply been blown out of the
earth, and the air that we make down here was escaping through the vent
into the air above. It burst up like a fountain. I crawled back to
it--for the upper air hurts--and, as it were, I took great sips from
the edge. My respirator had flown goodness knows where, my clothes
were torn. I just lay with my lips close to the hole, and I sipped
until the bleeding stopped. You can imagine nothing so curious. This
hollow in the grass--I will speak of it in a minute,--the sun shining
into it, not brilliantly but through marbled clouds,--the peace, the
nonchalance, the sense of space, and, brushing my cheek, the roaring
fountain of our artificial air! Soon I spied my respirator, bobbing
up and down in the current high above my head, and higher still were
many air-ships. But no one ever looks out of air-ships, and in my case
they could not have picked me up. There I was, stranded. The sun shone
a little way down the shaft, and revealed the topmost rung of the
ladder, but it was hopeless trying to reach it. I should either have
been tossed up again by the escape, or else have fallen in, and died. I
could only lie on the grass, sipping and sipping, and from time to time
on the subject before starting. Wessex lies above the room in which
we are talking now. It was once an important state. Its kings held
all the southern coast from the Andredswald to Cornwall, while the
Wansdyke protected them on the north, running over the high ground. The
lecturer was only concerned with the rise of Wessex, so I do not know
how long it remained an international power, nor would the knowledge
have assisted me. To tell the truth I could do nothing but laugh,
during this part. There was I, with a pneumatic stopper by my side and
a respirator bobbing over my head, imprisoned, all three of us, in a
it and to fill it as water fills a bowl. I could crawl about. Presently
I stood. I breathed a mixture, in which the air that hurts predominated
whenever I tried to climb the sides. This was not so bad. I had not
lost my tabloids and remained ridiculously cheerful, and as for the
Machine, I forgot about it altogether. My one aim now was to get to
rolling back, after a momentary vision of something grey. The sun grew
very feeble, and I remembered that he was in Scorpio--I had been to a
lecture on that too. If the sun is in Scorpio and you are in Wessex, it
means that you must be as quick as you can, or it will get too dark.
(This is the first bit of useful information I have ever got from a
lecture, and I expect it will be the last.) It made me try frantically
to breathe the new air, and to advance as far as I dared out of my
pond. The hollow filled so slowly. At times I thought that the fountain
played with less vigour. My respirator seemed to dance nearer the
less. There are no ideas in it, and I wish that I had not troubled you
slipped out of the sky by this time, and I could not get a good view.
You, who have just crossed the Roof of the World, will not want to hear
an account of the little hills that I saw--low colourless hills. But to
me they were living and the turf that covered them was a skin, under
which their muscles rippled, and I felt that those hills had called
with incalculable force to men in the past, and that men had loved
them. Now they sleep--perhaps for ever. They commune with humanity in
dreams. Happy the man, happy the woman, who awakes the hills of Wessex.
dying, and that down here the only thing that really lives is the
Machine? We created the Machine, to do our will, but we cannot make it
do our will now. It has robbed us of the sense of space and of the
sense of touch, it has blurred every human relation and narrowed down
love to a carnal act, it has paralysed our bodies and our wills, and
now it compels us to worship it. The Machine develops--but not on our
lines. The Machine proceeds--but not to our goal. We only exist as the
blood corpuscles that course through its arteries, and if it could work
without us, it would let us die. Oh, I have no remedy--or, at least,
only one--to tell men again and again that I have seen the hills of
world to hear your story, and hear it I will. Tell me--as briefly as
possible, for this is a disastrous waste of time--tell me how you
managed to walk along the surface of the earth to a vomitory, and there
forgotten about the Machine, and I paid no great attention at the time,
being occupied with other things. I had my pool of air, into which I
could dip when the outer keenness became intolerable, and which would
possibly remain for days, provided that no wind sprang up to disperse
it. Not until it was too late, did I realize what the stoppage of the
escape implied. You see--the gap in the tunnel had been mended; the
clearer than it had been in the day, and the moon, which was about
half the sky behind the sun, shone into the dell at moments quite
brightly. I was in my usual place--on the boundary between the two
atmospheres--when I thought I saw something dark move across the
bottom of the dell, and vanish into the shaft. In my folly, I ran down.
I bent over and listened, and I thought I heard a faint scraping noise
respirator and to walk right out of the dell. But my respirator had
gone. I knew exactly where it had fallen--between the stopper and the
aperture--and I could even feel the mark that it had made in the turf.
It had gone, and I realized that something evil was at work, and I had
better escape to the other air, and, if I must die, die running towards
the cloud that had been the colour of a pearl. I never started. Out of
the shaft--it is too horrible. A worm, a long white worm, had crawled
upon the creature instead of flying from it, and it at once curled
round the ankle. Then we fought. The worm let me run all over the
dell, but edged up my leg as I ran. 'Help!' I cried. (That part is
too awful. It belongs to the part that you will never know.) 'Help!'
I cried. (Why cannot we suffer in silence?) 'Help!' I cried. Then my
feet were wound together, I fell, I was dragged away from the dear
ferns and the living hills, and past the great metal stopper (I can
tell you this part), and I thought it might save me again if I caught
hold of the handle. It also was enwrapped, it also. Oh, the whole dell
was full of the things. They were searching it in all directions,
they were denuding it, and the white snouts of others peeped out
of the hole, ready if needed. Everything that could be moved they
brought--brushwood, bundles of fern, everything, and down we all went
intertwined into hell. The last things that I saw, ere the stopper
closed after us, were certain stars, and I felt that a man of my sort
lived in the sky. For I did fight, I fought till the very end, and it
was only my head hitting against the ladder that quieted me. I woke up
in this room. The worms had vanished. I was surrounded by artificial
air, artificial light, artificial peace, and my friends were calling to
me down speaking-tubes to know whether I had come across any new ideas
away, but they perished, too--who can doubt it? And so with the
Homeless of our own day. The surface of the earth supports life no
when I called--because she, too, was entangled by the worms, and,

                         THE HOMELESS
developments took place in the Machine. On the surface they were
revolutionary, but in either case men's minds had been prepared
beforehand, and they did but express tendencies that were latent
the surface of the earth. Air-ships might be necessary, but what was
the good of going out for mere curiosity and crawling along for a
mile or two in a terrestrial motor? The habit was vulgar and perhaps
faintly improper: it was unproductive of ideas, and had no connection
with the habits that really mattered. So respirators were abolished,
and with them, of course, the terrestrial motors, and except for a
few lecturers, who complained that they were debarred access to their
subject-matter, the development was accepted quietly. Those who still
wanted to know what the earth was like had after all only to listen
to some gramophone, or to look into some cinematophote. And even the
lecturers acquiesced when they found that a lecture on the sea was
none the less stimulating when compiled out of other lectures that
had already been delivered on the same subject. "Beware of first-hand
ideas!" exclaimed one of the most advanced of them. "First-hand ideas
do not really exist. They are but the physical impressions produced
by love and fear, and on this gross foundation who could erect a
philosophy? Let your ideas be second-hand, and if possible tenth-hand,
for then they will be far removed from that disturbing element--direct
observation. Do not learn anything about this subject of mine--the
French Revolution. Learn instead what I think that Enicharmon thought
Urizen thought Gutch thought Ho-Yung thought Chi-Bo-Sing thought
Lafcadio Hearn thought Carlyle thought Mirabeau said about the French
Revolution. Through the medium of these eight great minds, the blood
that was shed at Paris and the windows that were broken at Versailles
will be clarified to an idea which you may employ most profitably in
your daily lives. But be sure that the intermediates are many and
varied, for in history one authority exists to counteract another.
Urizen must counteract the scepticism of Ho-Yung and Enicharmon, I must
myself counteract the impetuosity of Gutch. You who listen to me are
in a better position to judge about the French Revolution than I am.
Your descendants will be even in a better position than you, for they
will learn what you think I think, and yet another intermediate will be
added to the chain. And in time"--his voice rose--"there will come a
generation that has got beyond facts, beyond impressions, a generation
From taint of personality,'
would like it to have happened, but as it would have happened, had it
already latent in the minds of men--a feeling that terrestrial facts
must be ignored, and that the abolition of respirators was a positive
gain. It was even suggested that air-ships should be abolished too.
This was not done, because air-ships had somehow worked themselves
into the Machine's system. But year by year they were used less, and
mistake the reverent tone in which the peroration had concluded, and
it awakened a responsive echo in the heart of each. Those who had long
worshipped silently, now began to talk. They described the strange
feeling of peace that came over them when they handled the Book of the
Machine, the pleasure that it was to repeat certain numerals out of it,
however little meaning those numerals conveyed to the outward ear, the
ecstasy of touching a button, however unimportant, or of ringing an
through it we speak to one another, through it we see one another, in
it we have our being. The Machine is the friend of ideas and the enemy
of superstition: the Machine is omnipotent, eternal; blessed is the
Machine." And before long this allocution was printed on the first
page of the Book, and in subsequent editions the ritual swelled into
a complicated system of praise and prayer. The word "religion" was
sedulously avoided, and in theory the Machine was still the creation
and the implement of man. But in practice all, save a few retrogrades,
worshipped it as divine. Nor was it worshipped in unity. One believer
would be chiefly impressed by the blue optic plates, through which he
saw other believers; another by the mending apparatus, which sinful
Kuno had compared to worms; another by the lifts, another by the Book.
And each would pray to this or to that, and ask it to intercede for
him with the Machine as a whole. Persecution--that also was present.
It did not break out, for reasons that will be set forward shortly.
But it was latent, and all who did not accept the minimum known as
"undenominational Mechanism" lived in danger of Homelessness, which
is to take a very narrow view of civilisation. The Central Committee
announced the developments, it is true, but they were no more the cause
of them than were the kings of the imperialistic period the cause of
war. Rather did they yield to some invincible pressure, which came no
one knew whither, and which, when gratified, was succeeded by some
new pressure equally invincible. To such a state of affairs it is
convenient to give the name of progress. No one confessed the Machine
was out of hand. Year by year it was served with increased efficiency
and decreased intelligence. The better a man knew his own duties upon
it, the less he understood the duties of his neighbour, and in all the
world there was not one who understood the monster as a whole. Those
master brains had perished. They had left full directions, it is true,
and their successors had each of them mastered a portion of those
directions. But Humanity, in its desire for comfort, had over-reached
itself. It had exploited the riches of nature too far. Quietly and
complacently, it was sinking into decadence, and progress had come to
disaster. She made her room dark and slept; she awoke and made the room
light. She lectured and attended lectures. She exchanged ideas with her
innumerable friends and believed she was growing more spiritual. At
times a friend was granted Euthanasia, and left his or her room for
the homelessness that is beyond all human conception. Vashti did not
much mind. After an unsuccessful lecture, she would sometimes ask for
Euthanasia herself. But the death-rate was not permitted to exceed the
never communicated, having nothing in common, and she had only heard
indirectly that he was still alive, and had been transferred from the
northern hemisphere, where he had behaved so mischievously, to the
who was my son believes that the Machine is stopping. It would be
of the Mending Apparatus. I complained of those curious gasping sighs
that disfigure the symphonies of the Brisbane school. They sound like
some one in pain. The Committee of the Mending Apparatus say that it
the music irritated her. For another thing, she could not forget Kuno's
speech. If he had known that the music was out of repair--he could not
know it, for he detested music--if he had known that it was wrong,
"the Machine stops" was exactly the venomous sort of remark he would
have made. Of course he had made it at a venture, but the coincidence
annoyed her, and she spoke with some petulance to the Committee of the
music? Things are always put right at once. If you do not mend it at
was such an unfortunate woman as myself. I can never be sure of my
had not been remedied, but the human tissues in that latter day had
become so subservient, that they readily adapted themselves to every
caprice of the Machine. The sigh at the crisis of the Brisbane symphony
no longer irritated Vashti; she accepted it as part of the melody.
The jarring noise, whether in the head or in the wall, was no longer
resented by her friend. And so with the mouldy artificial fruit, so
with the bath water that began to stink, so with the defective rhymes
that the poetry machine had taken to emit. All were bitterly complained
of at first, and then acquiesced in and forgotten. Things went from
was a more serious stoppage. There came a day when over the whole
world--in Sumatra, in Wessex, in the innumerable cities of Courland
and Brazil--the beds, when summoned by their tired owners, failed
to appear. It may seem a ludicrous matter, but from it we may date
the collapse of humanity. The Committee responsible for the failure
was assailed by complainants, whom it referred, as usual, to the
Committee of the Mending Apparatus, who in its turn assured them that
their complaints would be forwarded to the Central Committee. But the
discontent grew, for mankind was not yet sufficiently adaptable to do
allayed the panic with well-chosen words. It confessed that the Mending
gilded each new decay with splendour--"of course we shall not press our
complaints now. The Mending Apparatus has treated us so well in the
past that we all sympathize with it, and will wait patiently for its
recovery. In its own good time it will resume its duties. Meanwhile let
us do without our beds, our tabloids, our other little wants. Such, I
linked them. Under the seas, beneath the roots of the mountains, ran
the wires through which they saw and heard, the enormous eyes and ears
that were their heritage, and the hum of many workings clothed their
thoughts in one garment of subserviency. Only the old and the sick
remained ungrateful, for it was rumoured that Euthanasia, too, was out
its luminosity. At times Vashti could scarcely see across her room. The
air, too, was foul. Loud were the complaints, impotent the remedies,
heroic the tone of the lecturer as he cried: "Courage, courage! What
matter so long as the Machine goes on? To it the darkness and the
light are one." And though things improved again after a time, the old
brilliancy was never recaptured, and humanity never recovered from its
entrance into twilight. There was an hysterical talk of "measures,"
of "provisional dictatorship," and the inhabitants of Sumatra were
asked to familiarize themselves with the workings of the central
power station, the said power station being situated in France. But
for the most part panic reigned, and men spent their strength praying
to their Books, tangible proofs of the Machine's omnipotence. There
were gradations of terror--at times came rumours of hope--the Mending
Apparatus was almost mended--the enemies of the Machine had been got
under--new "nerve-centres" were evolving which would do the work even
more magnificently than before. But there came a day when, without the
slightest warning, without any previous hint of feebleness, the entire
communication-system broke down, all over the world, and the world, as
punctuated with applause. As she proceeded the audience became silent,
and at the conclusion there was no sound. Somewhat displeased, she
called to a friend who was a specialist in sympathy. No sound:
doubtless the friend was sleeping. And so with the next friend whom
she tried to summon, and so with the next, until she remembered Kuno's
improved a few hours previously. There was still the Book, and while
her--it did kill many thousands of people outright. Ever since her
birth she had been surrounded by the steady hum. It was to the ear
what artificial air was to the lungs, and agonizing pains shot across
her head. And scarcely knowing what she did, she stumbled forward and
not connected with the central power station, dying far away in France.
It opened, rousing immoderate hopes in Vashti, for she thought that the
Machine had been mended. It opened, and she saw the dim tunnel that
curved far away towards freedom. One look, and then she shrank back.
For the tunnel was full of people--she was almost the last in that city
worst dreams. People were crawling about, people were screaming,
whimpering, gasping for breath, touching each other, vanishing in the
dark, and ever and anon being pushed off the platform on to the live
rail. Some were fighting round the electric bells, trying to summon
trains which could not be summoned. Others were yelling for Euthanasia
or for respirators, or blaspheming the Machine. Others stood at the
doors of their cells fearing, like herself, either to stop in them or
to leave them. And behind all the uproar was silence--the silence which
down to wait for the end. The disintegration went on, accompanied by
horrible cracks and rumbling. The valves that restrained the Medical
Apparatus must have been weakened, for it ruptured and hung hideously
from the ceiling. The floor heaved and fell and flung her from her
chair. A tube oozed towards her serpent fashion. And at last the final
horror approached--light began to ebb, and she knew that civilisation's
the Book, pressing button after button. The uproar outside was
increasing, and even penetrated the wall. Slowly the brilliancy of her
cell was dimmed, the reflections faded from her metal switches. Now
she could not see the reading-stand, now not the Book, though she held
it in her hand. Light followed the flight of sound, air was following
light, and the original void returned to the cavern from which it had
been so long excluded. Vashti continued to whirl, like the devotees of
an earlier religion, screaming, praying, striking at the buttons with
spirit: at least so it seems to me, ere my meditation closes. That she
escapes in the body--I cannot perceive that. She struck, by chance, the
switch that released the door, and the rush of foul air on her skin,
the loud throbbing whispers in her ears, told her that she was facing
the tunnel again, and that tremendous platform on which she had seen
men fighting. They were not fighting now. Only the whispers remained,
and the little whimpering groans. They were dying by hundreds out in
bear that this should be the end. Ere silence was completed their
hearts were opened, and they knew what had been important on the earth.
Man, the flower of all flesh, the noblest of all creatures visible,
man who had once made god in his image, and had mirrored his strength
on the constellations, beautiful naked man was dying, strangled in the
garments that he had woven. Century after century had he toiled, and
here was his reward. Truly the garment had seemed heavenly at first,
shot with the colours of culture, sewn with the threads of self-denial.
And heavenly it had been so long as it was a garment and no more, so
long as man could shed it at will and live by the essence that is
his soul, and the essence, equally divine, that is his body. The sin
against the body--it was for that they wept in chief; the centuries of
wrong against the muscles and the nerves, and those five portals by
which we can alone apprehend--glozing it over with talk of evolution,
until the body was white pap, the home of ideas as colourless, last
as it was in Wessex, when Ælfrid overthrew the Danes. We know what
they know outside, they who dwelt in the cloud that is the colour of a
earth? Is this--this tunnel, this poisoned darkness--really not the
mist and the ferns until our civilisation stops. Today they are the
had sailed in through the vomitory into a ruined wharf. It crashed
downwards, exploding as it went, rending gallery after gallery with its
wings of steel. For a moment they saw the nations of the dead, and,


                               I
and now the tide was running out of the estuary strongly. The sun
was setting, the fields on the opposite bank shone bright, and the
farm-house where they were stopping glowed from its upper windows as
win unless you bust yourself a bit, and you a poor invalid, too. I back
of the retreating waters. Once past it, the force of the tide would
slacken, and they would have easy going until they beached under the
farm. It was a glorious evening. It had been a most glorious day. They
had rowed out to the dunes at the slack, bathed, raced, eaten, slept,
bathed and raced and eaten again. Micky was in roaring spirits. God had
never thwarted him hitherto, and he could not suppose that they would
really be made late for supper by an ebbing tide. When they came to
the channel, and the boat, which had been slowly edging upstream, hung
motionless among the moving waters, he lost all semblance of sanity,
It may be we shall touch the Happy Isles,
And see the great Achilles, whom we knew."
were roaring, and he neither looked nor felt a poor invalid. Science
had talked to him seriously of late, shaking her head at his sunburnt
body. What should Science know? She had sent him down to the sea to
recruit, and Micky to see that he did not tire himself. Micky had been
a nuisance at first, but common sense had prevailed, as it always does
among the young. A fortnight ago, he would not let the patient handle
an oar. Now he bid him "bust" himself, and Harold took him at his word
and did so. He made himself all will and muscle. He began not to know
where he was. The thrill of the stretcher against his feet, and of the
tide up his arms, merged with his friend's voice towards one nameless
sensation; he was approaching the mystic state that is the athlete's
rudder. But Micky had imagination. He looked at the flaming windows and
fancied that the farm was a star and the boat its attendant satellite.
Then the tide was the rushing ether stream of the universe, the
interstellar surge that beats for ever. How jolly! He did not formulate
his joys, after the weary fashion of older people. He was far too happy
to be thankful. "Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth,"
are the words of one who has left his youth behind, and all that Micky
him that it was better to die than to be beaten by the sea. He rowed
with gasps and angry little cries, while the voice of the helmsman
past on the furrowed waters. The song of a lark came faintly from the
land, and Micky saw the doctor's trap driving along the road that led
some day," and so saying dropped both oars. The boat spun round at
this, the farm, the trap, the song of the lark vanished, and he fell
heavily against the rowlock. Micky caught at him. He had strained his
expected never to be happy again. The sound of his own voice shouting
as he was carried out, the doctor's voice saying, "I consider you
responsible," the coming of Harold's parents, the voice of the curate
summarizing Harold's relations with the unseen--all these things
affected him so deeply that he supposed they would affect him for
ever. They did not, because he lived to be over seventy, and with the
best will in the world, it is impossible to remember clearly for so
long. The mind, however sensitive and affectionate, is coated with new
experiences daily; it cannot clear itself of the steady accretion,
and is forced either to forget the past or to distort it. So it was
with Michael. In time only the more dramatic incidents survived.
He remembered Harold's final gesture (one hand grasping his own,
the other plunged deep into the sea), because there was a certain
æsthetic quality about it, not because it was the last of his friend.
He remembered the final words for the same reason. "Don't you see the
point of it? Well, you will some day." The phrase struck his fancy, and
passed into his own stock; after thirty or forty years he forgot its
youth. No spiritual bond could survive. They had never discussed
theology or social reform, or any of the problems that were thronging
Michael's brain, and consequently, though they had been intimate
enough, there was nothing to remember. Harold melted the more one
thought of him. Robbed of his body, he was so shadowy. Nor could one
imagine him as a departed spirit, for the world beyond death is surely
august. Neither in heaven nor hell is there place for athletics and
aimless good temper, and if these were taken from Harold, what was
left? Even if the unseen life should prove an archetype of this, even
if it should contain a sun and stars of its own, the sunburn of earth
must fade off our faces as we look at it, the muscles of earth must
wither before we can go rowing on its infinite sea. Michael sadly
resigned his friend to God's mercy. He himself could do nothing, for
men can only immortalize those who leave behind them some strong
he was not as Harold. It was no merit of his own, but he had been born
of a more intellectual stock, and had inherited powers that rendered
him worthier of life, and of whatever may come after it. He cared for
the universe, for the tiny tangle in it that we call civilisation,
for his fellow-men who had made the tangle and who transcended it.
Love, the love of humanity, warmed him; and even when he was thinking
of other matters, was looking at Orion perhaps in the cold winter
evenings, a pang of joy, too sweet for description, would thrill him,
and he would feel sure that our highest impulses have some eternal
value, and will be completed hereafter. So full a nature could not
woman who was to become his helpmate through life. He had met her once
before, and had not liked her; she had seemed uncharitable and hard.
Now he saw that her hardness sprang from a morality that he himself
lacked. If he believed in love, Janet believed in truth. She tested all
men and all things. She had no patience with the sentimentalist who
shelters from the world's rough and tumble. Engaged at that time to
another man, she spoke more freely to Michael than she would otherwise
have done, and told him that it is not enough to feel good and to
feel that others are good; one's business is to make others better,
and she urged him to adopt a profession. The beauty of honest work
dawned upon the youth as she spoke. Mentally and physically, he came to
full manhood, and, after due preparation, he entered the Home Civil
to humanity. With his ideals of conduct and culture, Michael was not
content with the official routine. He desired to help others, and,
since he was gifted with tact, they consented to the operation. Before
long he became a conciliatory force in his department. He could mollify
his superiors, encourage his inferiors, soothe foreign scholars, and
show that there is something to be said for all sides. Janet, who
watched his rise, taxed him again with instability. But now she was
wrong. The young man was not a mere opportunist. He always had a
sincere opinion of his own, or he could not have retained the respect
of his colleagues. It was really the inherent sweetness of his nature
interval Janet had suffered much pain, for the man to whom she had been
engaged had proved unworthy of her. Her character was set when she
came to Michael, and, as he knew, strongly contrasted with his own;
and perhaps they had already interchanged all the good they could. But
the marriage proved durable and sufficiently happy. He, in particular,
made endless allowances, for toleration and sympathy were becoming the
cardinal points of his nature. If his wife was unfair to the official
mind, or if his brother-in-law, an atheist, denounced religion, he
would say to himself, "They cannot help it; they are made thus, and
have the qualities of their defects. Let me rather think of my own, and
literature. As he was crossing the forties it occurred to him to write
a few essays, somewhat retrospective in tone, and thoughtful rather
than profound in content. They had some success. Their good taste,
their lucid style, the tempered Christianity of their ethics, whetted
the half-educated public, and made it think and feel. They were not,
and were not intended to be, great literature, but they opened the
doors to it, and were indubitably a power for good. The first volume
was followed by "The Confessions of a Middle-aged Man." In it Michael
paid melodious tribute to youth, but showed that ripeness is all.
Experience, he taught, is the only humanizer; sympathy, balance and
many-sidedness cannot come to a man until he is elderly. It is always
pleasant to be told that the best is yet to be, and the sale of the
book was large. Perhaps he would have become a popular author, but
his wife's influence restrained him from writing anything that he did
not sincerely feel. She had borne him three children by now--Henry,
Catherine, and Adam. On the whole they were a happy family. Henry never
gave any trouble. Catherine took after her mother. Adam, who was wild
and uncouth, caused his father some anxiety. He could not understand
him, in spite of careful observation, and they never became real
friends. Still, it was but a little cloud in a large horizon. At home,
inherited a house in the Surrey hills, and Janet, whose real interests
were horticultural, settled down there. After all, she had not proved
an intellectual woman. Her fierce manner had misled him and perhaps
herself into believing it. She was efficient enough in London society,
but it bored her, for she lacked her husband's pliancy, and aged more
rapidly than he did. Nor did the country suit her. She grew querulous,
disputing with other ladies about the names of flowers. And, of course,
the years were not without their effect on him, too. By now he was
somewhat of a valetudinarian. He had given up all outdoor sports, and,
though his health remained good, grew bald, and rather stout and timid.
He was against late hours, violent exercise, night walks, swimming when
hot, muddling about in open boats, and he often had to check himself
from fidgeting the children. Henry, a charming sympathetic lad, would
squeeze his hand and say, "All right, father." But Catherine and Adam
sometimes frowned. He thought of the children more and more. Now that
his wife was declining, they were the future, and he was determined to
keep in touch with them, remembering how his own father had failed with
him. He believed in gentleness, and often stood between them and their
mother. When the boys grew up he let them choose their own friends.
When Catherine, at the age of nineteen, asked if she might go away and
earn some money as a lady gardener, he let her go. In this case he had
his reward, for Catherine, having killed the flowers, returned. She
was a restless, scowling young woman, a trial to her mother, who could
not imagine what girls were coming to. Then she married and improved
bedridden, and, after a protracted illness, passed into the unknown.
Sir Michael--for he had been knighted--declared that he should not
survive her. They were so accustomed to each other, so mutually
necessary, that he fully expected to pass away after her. In this he
was mistaken. She died when he was sixty, and he lived to be over
seventy. His character had passed beyond the clutch of circumstance and
was devoted to his mother, and had only tolerated home life for her
sake. After a brutal scene he left. He wrote from the Argentine that he
was sorry, but wanted to start for himself. "I don't see the point of
it," quavered Sir Michael. "Have I ever stopped him or any of you from
starting?" Henry and Catherine agreed with him. Yet he felt that they
understood their brother better than he did. "I have given him freedom
all his life," he continued. "I have given him freedom, what more does
he want?" Henry, after hesitation, said, "There are some people who
feel that freedom cannot be given. At least I have heard so. Perhaps
Adam is like that. Unless he took freedom he might not feel free." Sir
Michael disagreed. "I have now studied adolescence for many years," he
dignified old age. Having retired from the British Museum, he produced
a little aftermath of literature. The great public had forgotten him,
but the courtliness of his "Musings of a Pensioner" procured him
some circulation among elderly and educated audiences. And he found
never been hostile to the Established Church; and, when he criticized
her worldliness and occasional inhumanity, had spoken as one who
was outside her rather than against her. After his wife's death and
the flight of his son he lost any lingering taste for speculation.
The experience of years disposed him to accept the experience of
centuries, and to merge his feeble personal note in the great voice of
tradition. Yes; a serene and dignified old age. Few grudged it to him.
Of course, he had enemies, who professed to see through him, and said
that Adam had seen through him too; but no impartial observer agreed.
No ulterior motive had ever biased Sir Michael. The purity of his
record was not due to luck, but to purity within, and his conciliatory
manner sprang from a conciliated soul. He could look back on failures
and mistakes, and he had not carried out the ideals of his youth. Who
has? But he had succeeded better than most men in modifying those
ideals to fit the world of facts, and if love had been modified into
sympathy and sympathy into compromise, let one of his contemporaries
died, and at times he was bestially afraid. But more often death
appeared as a prolongation of his present career. He saw himself
quietly and tactfully organizing some corner in infinity with his
wife's assistance; Janet would be greatly improved. He saw himself
passing from a sphere in which he had been efficient into a sphere
which combined the familiar with the eternal, and in which he would
be equally efficient--passing into it with dignity and without pain.
This life is a preparation for the next. Those who live longest are
consequently the best prepared. Experience is the great teacher;
blessed are the experienced, for they need not further modify their
He was walking from his town house to Catherine's by a short cut
through a slum; some women were quarrelling about a fish, and as he
passed they appealed to him. Always courteous, the old man stopped,
said that he had not sufficient data to judge on, and advised them to
lay the fish aside for twenty-four hours. This chanced to annoy them,
and they grew more angry with him than with one another. They accused
him of "doing them," of "getting round them," and one, who was the
worse for drink, said, "See if he gets round that," and slapped him
with the fish in the face. He fell. When he came to himself he was
voice of Adam; how and when had Adam returned? "But, then, he's been
anything since Mother died, and damned little before. They've forgotten
his books because they aren't first-hand; they're rearranging the cases
he arranged in the British Museum. That's the lot. What else has he
get famous. It's a sign of your sloppy civilisation. You're all
afraid--afraid of originality, afraid of work, afraid of hurting
one another's feelings. You let any one come to the top who doesn't
frighten you, and as soon as he dies you forget him and knight some
want you and your boy to help me with mine." Her voice sounded dimmer;
she had turned from her father without a word of farewell. "One must
profit by the mistakes of others ... after all, more heroism.... I am
younger generation had been thinking. Adam he ignored, but at the
recollection of Henry and Catherine he determined to die. If he chose,
he could have risen from bed and driven the whole pack into the
street. But he did not choose. He chose rather to leave this shoddy
and ungrateful world. The immense and super-human cynicism that is
latent in all of us came at last to the top and transformed him. He saw
the absurdity of love, and the vision so tickled him that he began to
laugh. The nurse, who had called him a dear old man, bent over him, and
croon of admiration, Catherine's boy followed his cousin out of the
room. Their grandfather's mirth increased. He rolled about in the bed;
and, just as he was grasping the full irony of the situation, he died,
dreams. But when he opened his mouth to laugh, it filled with dust.
Choosing to open his eyes, he found that he had swollen enormously, and
lay sunk in the sand of an illimitable plain. As he expected, he had no
occasion greatly to modify his ideals; infinity had merely taken the
place of his bedroom and of London. Nothing moved on its surface except
a few sand-pillars, which would sometimes merge into each other as
though confabulating, and then fall with a slight hiss. Save for these,
perhaps, while his body seemed to be walking among men. Life is so
short and trivial, that who knows whether we arrive for it entirely,
whether more than a fraction of the soul is aroused to put on flesh?
The bud and the blossom perish in a moment, the husk endures, and may
not the soul be a husk? It seemed to Micky that he had lain in the
dust for ever, suffering and sneering, and that the essence of all
things, the primal power that lies behind the stars, is senility. Age,
toothless, dropsical age; ungenerous to age and to youth; born before
sloped downward into darkness and upward into cloud, but into what
darkness, what clouds! No tragic splendour glorified them. When he
looked at them he understood why he was so unhappy, for they were
looking at him, sneering at him while he sneered. Their dirtiness was
more ancient than the hues of day and night, their irony more profound;
he was part of their jest, even as youth was part of his, and slowly he
the plain had festered. Some of them could sit up, others scarcely
protruded from the sand, and he knew that they had made the same
mistake in life as himself, though he did not know yet what the mistake
had been; probably some little slip, easily avoided had one but been
Then he knew that one of the sins here punished was appreciation;
he was suffering for all the praise that he had given to the bad
and mediocre upon earth; when he had praised out of idleness, or to
please people, or to encourage people; for all the praise that had
not been winged with passion. He repeated "Most beautiful," and the
sky quivered, for he was entering into fuller torments now. One ray
of happiness survived: his wife could not be in this place. She had
not sinned with the people of the plain, and could not suffer their
distortion. Her view of life had proved right after all; and, in his
utter misery, this comforted him. Janet should again be his religion,
and as eternity dragged forward and returned upon itself and dragged
forward she would show him that old age, if rightly managed, can be
beautiful; that experience, if rightly received, can lead the soul of
man to bliss. Then he turned to his neighbour, who was continuing his
restlessness during life--that is to say, during what men miscall life,
for it is death really--this is life--when I think of my restlessness
on earth, I am overcome by so much goodness and mercy, I could lie here
could speak or see. Then Micky took up the song, chafed by the
youth. I regret all the time I spent in the sun. In later years I did
repent, and that is why I am admitted here where there is no sun; yes,
and no wind and none of the stars that drove me almost mad at night
once. It would be appalling, would it not, to see Orion again, the
central star of whose sword is not a star but a nebula, the golden seed
of worlds to be. How I dreaded the autumn on earth when Orion rises,
for he recalled adventure and my youth. It was appalling. How thankful
Orion and see the Twins. Castor and Pollux were brothers, one human,
the other divine; and Castor died. But Pollux went down to Hell that he
sailors worship, and all who love and are young. Zeus was their father,
Helen their sister, who brought the Greeks against Troy. I dreaded them
cultivated men on earth, and these are capable of the nicer torments
hereafter. Their memories will strike exquisite images to enhance
their pain. "I will speak no more," said Micky to himself. "I will be
silent through eternity." But the darkness prised open his lips, and
of the soft. We here lie in the heaven of the soft. It is a sufficient
plain, Micky saw that in the distance it was bounded by mountains of
stone, and he knew, without being told, that among those mountains
Janet lay, rigid, and that he should never see her. She had not been
saved. The darkness would mock her, too, for ever. With him lay the
sentimentalists, the conciliators, the peace-makers, the humanists,
and all who have trusted the warmer vision; with his wife were the
reformers and ascetics and all sword-like souls. By different paths
they had come to Hell, and Micky now saw what the bustle of life
conceals: that the years are bound either to liquefy a man or to
stiffen him, and that Love and Truth, who seem to contend for our souls
and simple. But answer one question more that my bliss may be
did the same. He had vague memories of men and women who had died
before reaching maturity, of boys and unwedded maidens and youths
lowered into the grave before their parents' eyes. Whither had they
gone, that undeveloped minority? What was the point of their brief
existence? Had they vanished utterly, or were they given another chance
of accreting experiences until they became like Janet or himself? One
thing was certain: there were no young, either in the mountains or the
plain, and perhaps the very memory of such creatures was an illusion
decomposition--his work had been soft, his books soft, he had softened
his relations with other men. He had seen good in everything, and this
is itself a sign of decay. Whatever occurred he had been appreciative,
tolerant, pliant. Consequently he had been a success; Adam was right;
it was the moment in civilisation for his type. He had mistaken
self-criticism for self-discipline, he had muffled in himself and
others the keen, heroic edge. Yet the luxury of repentance was denied
him. The fault was his, but the fate humanity's, for every one grows
superseded. This is the whole of my life." And his agony increased,
because all the same there had been in that life an elusive joy which,
if only he could have distilled it, would have sweetened infinity. It
was part of the jest that he should try, and should eternally oscillate
between disgust and desire. For there is nothing ultimate in Hell; men
will not lay aside all hope on entering it, or they would attain to the
splendour of despair. To have made a poem about Hell is to mistake its
very essence; it is the imagination of men, who will have beauty, that
fashions it as ice or flame. Old, but capable of growing older, Micky
lay in the sandy country, remembering that once he had remembered a
uneasiness such as he had not noted in them before had arisen. "A
pillar of sand," said one. Another said, "It is not; it comes from the
frightened, and were finding means to express their fear. When he said,
"With permission, they can do us no harm," he was answered, "They
harm us with light and a song." And again, "They harm us because they
were crying to each other faintly. He heard, "It is coming; drive
it back over the river, shatter it, compel it to be old." And then
the darkness was cloven, and a star of pain broke in his soul. He
When it pressed the air parted and the sand-pillars fell, and its path
the world for them until they preferred the world. They came to me as
children, afraid; I taught them, and they despised me. Childhood is a
dream about me, experience a slow forgetting: I govern the magic years
bear it, until there was light and a song. Go back again over the
river. This is Heaven, we were saying, that darkness is God; we could
praise them till you came. The book of our deeds is closed; why open
it? We were damned from our birth; leave it there. O supreme jester,
forgetting. Death is real. But I, too, am real, and whom I will I save.
I see the scheme of things, and in it no place for me, the brain and
the body against me. Therefore I rend the scheme in two, and make a
place, and under countless names have harrowed Hell. Come." Then, in
tones of inexpressible sweetness, "Come to me all who remember. Come
out of your eternity into mine. It is easy, for I am still at your
eyes, waiting to look out of them; still in your hearts, waiting to
beat. The years that I dwelt with you seemed short, but they were
for strength and beauty among men. The flower fades, the seas dry up in
the sun, the sun and all the stars fade as a flower. But the desire for
such things, that is eternal, that can abide, and he who desires me is
pain, scorched by the glare, pierced by the voice. But as he died he
said, "I do desire," and immediately the invader vanished, and he
was standing alone on the sandy plain. It had been merely a dream.
But he was standing. How was that? Why had he not thought to stand
before? He had been unhappy in Hell, and all that he had to do was to
go elsewhere. He passed downwards, pained no longer by the mockery
of its cloud. The pillars brushed against him and fell, the nether
darkness went over his head. On he went till he came to the banks of
the infernal stream, and there he stumbled--stumbled over a piece of
wood, no vague substance, but a piece of wood that had once belonged
to a tree. At his impact it moved, and water gurgled against it. He
had embarked. Some one was rowing. He could see the blades of oars
moving towards him through the foam, but the rower was invisible in
cloud. As they neared mid-channel the boat went more slowly, for the
tide was ebbing, and Micky knew that once carried out he would be
lost eternally; there was no second hope of salvation. He could not
speak, but his heart beat time to the oars--one, two. Hell made her
last effort, and all that is evil in creation, all the distortions of
love and truth by which we are vexed, came surging down the estuary,
and the boat hung motionless. Micky heard the pant of breath through
the roaring, the crack of angelic muscles; then he heard a voice say,
"The point of it ..." and a weight fell off his body and he crossed
sunshine. The sky was cloudless, the earth gold, and gulls were riding
up and down on the furrowed waters. On the bank they had left were some
sand-dunes rising to majestic hills; on the bank in front was a farm,
Gate of Heaven. The world soul pressed them on every side, just as the
atmosphere presses upon rising bubbles, striving to vanquish them, to
break their thin envelope of personality, to mingle their virtue with
its own. But they resisted, remembering their glorious individual life
and honourable life, had recently deceased at his house in town.
He knew himself to be kind, upright and religious, and though he
approached his trial with all humility, he could not be doubtful of
its result. God was not now a jealous God. He would not deny salvation
merely because it was expected. A righteous soul may reasonably be
other's hands. "I am broad church," he added gently. The word "broad"
Winchester and Oxford. I thought of becoming a missionary, but was
offered a post in the Board of Trade, which I accepted. At thirty-two I
married, and had four children, two of whom have died. My wife survives
mother does not signify. I grew up in the slums of Salonika. Then I
joined a band and we plundered the villages of the infidel. I prospered
and had three wives, all of whom survive me. Had I lived a little
again, for he was filled with horror at the approaching tragedy. This
man, so godless, so lawless, so cruel, so lustful, believed that he
would be admitted into Heaven. And into what a heaven--a place full
of the crude pleasures of a ruffian's life on earth! But Mr. Andrews
felt neither disgust nor moral indignation. He was only conscious of an
immense pity, and his own virtues confronted him not at all. He longed
to save the man whose hand he held more tightly, who, he thought, was
now holding more tightly on to him. And when he reached the Gate of
Heaven, instead of saying, "Can I enter?" as he had intended, he cried
himself in a splendid turban and a waistcoat embroidered with silver,
and baggy trousers, and a great belt in which were stuck pipes and
hesitating tones, "White, I suppose, of some flowing soft material,"
and he was immediately given a garment such as he had described. "Do I
the Turk, who had already entered Heaven. As he passed in at the open
seated figures were all the gods who were then being worshipped on the
earth. A group of souls stood round each, singing his praises. But the
gods paid no heed, for they were listening to the prayers of living
men, which alone brought them nourishment. Sometimes a faith would
grow weak, and then the god of that faith also drooped and dwindled
and fainted for his daily portion of incense. And sometimes, owing to
a revivalist movement, or to a great commemoration, or to some other
cause, a faith would grow strong, and the god of that faith grow strong
also. And, more frequently still, a faith would alter, so that the
features of its god altered and became contradictory, and passed from
ecstasy to respectability, or from mildness and universal love to the
ferocity of battle. And at times a god would divide into two gods,
or three, or more, each with his own ritual and precarious supply of
Elohim. He saw little ugly determined gods who were worshipped by a
few savages in the same way. He saw the vast shadowy outlines of the
neo-Pagan Zeus. There were cruel gods, and coarse gods, and tortured
gods, and, worse still, there were gods who were peevish, or deceitful,
or vulgar. No aspiration of humanity was unfulfilled. There was even
an intermediate state for those who wished it, and for the Christian
dead friends. And though souls were continually entering Heaven, it
still seemed curiously empty. Though he had all that he expected, he
was conscious of no great happiness, no mystic contemplation of beauty,
no mystic union with good. There was nothing to compare with that
moment outside the gate, when he prayed that the Turk might enter and
heard the Turk uttering the same prayer for him. And when at last he
parted, and such as my pleasures are, they shall be yours also. Where
are my other friends? Where are the men whom I love, or whom I have
Turk, and the virgins, who were all exactly alike, ogled them with coal
of no great happiness. There is nothing to compare with that moment
outside the gate when I prayed that you might enter, and heard you
uttering the same prayer for me. These virgins are as beautiful and
eyes grew larger and blacker than before. And Mr. Andrews, by a wish
similar in kind, increased the purity and softness of his garment and
the glitter of his harp. For in that place their expectations were
cannot imagine it. How can we expect it to be granted? I have never
virgins and his best clothes, and Mr. Andrews cast away his robes and
the world soul. For a moment they stood hand in hand resisting it.
Then they suffered it to break in upon them, and they, and all the
experience they had gained, and all the love and wisdom they had
succeeded them. They played the duet worse than Mildred, but not
as badly as Ellen. At four-fifteen Margaret and Jane came. They
played worse than Rose and Enid, but not as badly as Ellen. At
four-thirty Dolores and Violet came. They played worse than Ellen.
At four-forty-five Miss Haddon went to tea with the Principal, who
explained why she desired all the pupils to learn the same duet.
It was part of her new co-ordinative system. The school was taking
one subject for the year, only one--Napoleon--and all the studies
were to bear on that one subject. Thus--not to mention French and
History--the Repetition class was learning Wordsworth's political
poems, the literature class was reading extracts from "War and Peace,"
the drawing class copied something of David's, the needlework class
designed Empire gowns, and the music pupils--they, of course, were
practising Beethoven's "Eroica" Symphony, which had been begun (though
not finished) in honour of the Emperor. Several of the other mistresses
were at tea, and they exclaimed that they loved co-ordinating, and
that it was a lovely system: it made work so much more interesting to
them as well as to the girls. But Miss Haddon did not respond. There
had been no co-ordination in her day, and she could not understand it.
She only knew that she was growing old, and teaching music worse and
worse, and she wondered how soon the Principal would find this out and
ranged on smaller clouds, sat his clerks. Each made entries in a
ledger, and he whose ledger was entitled "'Eroica' Symphony: arranged
for four hands, by Carl Müller," was making the following entries:
"3.45, Mildred and Ellen; conductor, Miss Haddon. 4.0, Rose and Enid;
conductor, Miss Haddon. 4.15, Margaret and Jane; conductor, Miss
in her presence every day and all day. The sound of it never ceases. It
floats out of the window like a continual incense, and is heard up and
insight. There was a time when Ellen was further from your spirit than
the rest, but that has not been the case since Dolores and Violet
that Miss Haddon and her orchestra and all in their house shall this
how it would be executed, a scene of even greater splendour was taking
place in another part of the empyrean. There Napoleon sat, surrounded
by his clerks, who were so numerous that the thrones of the outermost
looked no larger than cirro-cumuli clouds. They were busy entering all
the references made on earth to their employer, a task for which he
himself had organized them. Every few moments he asked, "And what is
"5.0, Mildred, Ellen, Rose, Enid, Margaret and Jane, all recited the
sonnet, 'Once did she hold the gorgeous East in fee.' Dolores and
said the Emperor, "and the greatness of the theme overcame Violet and
Jane, are sketching in the left front leg of Pauline Buonaparte's
who have been sent to sharpen pencils, the whole company sings the
demoiselles ont un vrai élan vers la gloire. I decree in recompense
that they and all their house shall participate tomorrow morning in the
were already bored to tears by the new system. But a wonderful thing
happened. A regiment of cavalry rode past the school, headed by the
most spiffing band. The girls went off their heads with joy. They
rose from their seats, they sang, they advanced, they danced, they
pranced, they made trumpets out of paper and used the blackboard as a
kettle-drum. They were able to do this because Miss Haddon, who ought
to have been supervising, had left the room to find a genealogical tree
of Marie Louise; the history mistress had asked her particularly to
take it to prep. for the girls to climb about in, but she had forgotten
it. "I am no good at all," thought Miss Haddon, as she stretched out
her hand for the tree; it lay with some other papers under a shell
which the Principal had procured from St. Helena. "I am stupid and
tired and old; I wish that I was dead." Thus thinking, she lifted the
shell mechanically to her ear; her father, who was a sailor, had often
or chattering against stones, or the short, crisp break of a wave on
sand, or the long, echoing roar of a wave against rocks, or the sounds
of the central ocean, where the waters pile themselves into mountains
and part into ravines; or when fog descends, and the deep rises and
falls gently; or when the air is so fresh that the big waves and the
little waves that live in the big waves all sing for joy, and send one
another kisses of white foam. She heard them all, but in the end she
house," she continued. "I half thought it was the elocution hour. Put
down that paper-weight at once, please, Miss Haddon, and return to your
it on its proper shelf. But the force of example caused her to raise it
ever known, but all the people she had known were riding about in it,
and calling softly to each other on horns. It was night, and they were
hunting. Now and then beasts rustled, and once there was an "Halloo!"
and a chase, but more often her friends rode quietly, and she with
came here, and once more will make little difference. I am not musical.
I have deceived the pupils and the parents and you. I am not musical,
but pretended that I was to make money. What will happen to me now I do
musical; the sound of pianos had continued for so many years that
she had assumed all was well. In ordinary circumstances she would
have answered scathingly, for she was an accomplished woman, but the
murmuring forest caused her to reply, "Oh, Miss Haddon, not now; let's
talk it over tomorrow morning. Now, if you will, I want you to lie down
in my sitting-room while I take preparation instead, for it always
to her. And the Principal, her head full of forest murmurs, went to the
preparation-room, and gave her cough three times before she opened the
door. All the girls were at their desks except Dolores and Violet, and
them she affected not to notice. After a time she went to fetch the
tree of Marie Louise, which she had forgotten, and during her absence
waited to speak to you. I have had some extraordinary news. Many years
ago my father saved a man from drowning. That man has just died, and he
has left me a cottage by the edge of the sea, and money to live in it.
I need not work any more; so if only I had waited till today I could
that you did not wait," she said. "What you said yesterday was a word
of truth, a clear call through the thicket. I wish that I, too----" She
Miss Haddon another, giving every one the address of the cottage,
and inviting them to visit her at it. Then Rose was sent to the
pastrycook's for ices, and Enid to the greengrocer's for fruit, and
Mildred to the sweetshop for lemonade, and Jane to the livery stables
for brakes, and they all drove out an immense distance into the
country, and played disorganized games. Every one hid and nobody
sought; every one batted and nobody fielded; no one knew whose side she
was on, and no mistress tried to tell her; and it was even possible
to play two games at once, and to be Clumps in one and Peter Pan in
the other. As for the co-ordinative system, it was never mentioned, or
mentioned in derision. For example, Ellen composed a song against it,
Sat on his Pony,
  Eating his Christmas Pie,
He put in his thumb
And pulled out a plum,
  And said, "What a good boy am I,"
Haddon and herself. She was ringed with happy, tired faces. The sun
was setting, the dust that the day had disturbed was sinking. "Well,
girls," she said, laughing, but just a little shy, "so you don't seem
I. In fact, I hate it. But I was obliged to take it up, because that
and Violet, who thought that the Board of Education was a new round
escape the attention of Mephistopheles. At the earliest opportunity
he sought the Judgment Seat, bearing an immense scroll inscribed
"J'accuse!" Half-way up he met the angel Raphael, who asked him in his
"It would be a pity to fly so far for nothing, and you had such a
prove the futility of genius. Great men think that they are understood,
this universe is supposed to rest on co-ordination, all creatures
hear a performance of his A minor quartette. They hear--some of them
a band, others a shell. Charge two: Napoleon decrees that the same
shall participate in the victory of Austerlitz. Result--a legacy,
followed by a school treat. Charge three: Females perform Beethoven.
Being deaf, and being served by dishonest clerks, he supposes they
are performing him with insight. Charge four: To impress the Board of
Education, females study Napoleon. He is led to suppose that they are
studying him properly. I have other points, but these will suffice. The
genius and the ordinary man have never co-ordinated once since Abel was
Go back to the earth and walk up and down it again. For these people
have co-ordinated, Mephistopheles. They have co-ordinated through the
Deist Controversy as it fell downward through the waters of the
Mediterranean. It dived, like a piece of black slate, but opened soon,
disclosing leaves of pale green, which quivered into blue. Now it had
vanished, now it was a piece of magical india-rubber stretching out
to infinity, now it was a book again, but bigger than the book of all
knowledge. It grew more fantastic as it reached the bottom, where a
puff of sand welcomed it and obscured it from view. But it reappeared,
quite sane though a little tremulous, lying decently open on its back,
in the hotel. Then you would be free to enjoy yourself and this would
warbled the chaplain, while his sister said, "Why, it's gone in the
water!" As for the boatmen, one of them laughed, while the other,
Fellowship Dissertation. There won't be much left of it by another
us leave this child of nature to dive for the book while we go on to
the other grotto. We can land him either on this rock or on the ledge
behind too, to lighten the boat. So the two of us were deposited
outside the little grotto on a great sunlit rock that guarded the
harmonies within. Let us call them blue, though they suggest rather the
spirit of what is clean--cleanliness passed from the domestic to the
sublime, the cleanliness of all the sea gathered together and radiating
light. The Blue Grotto at Capri contains only more blue water, not
bluer water. That colour and that spirit are the heritage of every cave
myself on a sloping rock with an unknown Sicilian. With a jerk he
became alive, seizing my arm and saying, "Go to the end of the grotto,
sea; he drew me away from the light till I was standing on the tiny
beach of sand which emerged like powdered turquoise at the farther end.
There he left me with his clothes, and returned swiftly to the summit
of the entrance rock. For a moment he stood naked in the brilliant sun,
looking down at the spot where the book lay. Then he crossed himself,
was that of a silver statue, alive beneath the sea, through whom life
throbbed in blue and green. Something infinitely happy, infinitely
wise--but it was impossible that it should emerge from the depths
sunburned and dripping, holding the notebook on the Deist Controversy
offered, he was sure to want more, and I was disinclined for an
argument in a place so beautiful and also so solitary. It was a relief
that he should say in conversational tones, "In a place like this one
surroundings. We had been left together in a magic world, apart from
all the commonplaces that are called reality, a world of blue whose
floor was the sea and whose walls and roof of rock trembled with the
sea's reflections. Here only the fantastic would be tolerable, and it
printed last year. Who would have thought that our Siren would have
spite of there being a woodcut of the young person, and the words of
water? Who could? She sometimes tries, but nothing comes from her but
the air, so she cannot breathe it, and blessed the rocks, so that she
cannot sit on them. But the sea no man can bless, because it is too
something was on his mind, and going out to the entrance rock gazed at
the external blue. Then returning into our twilight he said, "As a rule
strange thing, and the priests do not know how to account for it, for
she of course is wicked. Not only those who fast and go to Mass are in
danger, but even those who are merely good in daily life. No one in
the village had seen her for two generations. I am not surprised. We
all cross ourselves before we enter the water, but it is unnecessary.
Giuseppe, we thought, was safer than most. We loved him, and many of us
stronger than I was, and it was the year when the visitors, who have
brought such prosperity and so many alterations into the village, first
began to come. One English lady in particular, of very high birth,
came, and has written a book about the place, and it was through her
that the Improvement Syndicate was formed, which is about to connect
close under the cliffs I put out my hand, as one does, and caught a
little crab, and having pulled off its claws offered it as a curiosity.
The ladies groaned, but a gentleman was pleased, and held out money.
Being inexperienced, I refused it, saying that his pleasure was
sufficient reward! Giuseppe, who was rowing behind, was very angry with
me and reached out with his hand and hit me on the side of the mouth,
so that a tooth cut my lip, and I bled. I tried to hit him back, but
he always was too quick for me, and as I stretched round he kicked me
under the armpit, so that for a moment I could not even row. There was
a great noise among the ladies, and I heard afterward that they were
planning to take me away from my brother and train me as a waiter.
was very anxious that one of us should dive for money, and the ladies
consented, as they sometimes do. Giuseppe, who had discovered how much
pleasure it gives foreigners to see us in the water, refused to dive
bruise, and crying, for I could not help it. He laughed and said, 'This
time, at all events, I shall not see the Siren!' and went into the
rock and the quivering walls and the magic water through which great
away, and said, "He came up without the coin. We pulled him into the
boat, and he was so large that he seemed to fill it, and so wet that
we could not dress him. I have never seen a man so wet. I and the
gentleman rowed back, and we covered Giuseppe with sacking and propped
money, and the priest came and spattered him with holy water. But it
was no good. He was too big--like a piece of the sea. He kissed the
often' how is it you do not know? Unhappy, unhappy because he knew
everything. Every living thing made him unhappy because he knew it
on. All the work fell on me, and my sister had to go out to service. We
tried to make him into a beggar, but he was too robust to inspire pity,
and as for an idiot, he had not the right look in his eyes. He would
stand in the street looking at people, and the more he looked at them
the more unhappy he became. When a child was born he would cover his
face with his hands. If any one was married--he was terrible then, and
would frighten them as they came out of church. Who would have believed
he would marry himself! I caused that, I. I was reading out of the
paper how a girl at Ragusa had 'gone mad through bathing in the sea.'
house, broke into her room, and carried her off. She was the daughter
of a rich mineowner, so you may imagine our peril. Her father came
down, with a clever lawyer, but they could do no more than I. They
argued and they threatened, but at last they had to go back and we
lost nothing--that is to say, no money. We took Giuseppe and Maria to
the church and had them married. Ugh! that wedding! The priest made no
jokes afterward, and coming out the children threw stones.... I think I
would have died to make her happy; but as always happens, one could do
Love is nothing. I had two people to work for now, for she was like
him in everything--one never knew which of them was speaking. I had to
sell our own boat and work under the bad old man you have today. Worst
of all, people began to hate us. The children first--everything begins
with them--and then the women and last of all the men. For the cause of
blasphemy of one who has escaped from supervision, cursing the priests,
who had ruined his life, he said. "Thus are we tricked!" was his cry,
and he stood up and kicked at the azure ripples with his feet, till he
superstition, came nearer to reality than anything I had known before.
I don't know why, but it filled me with desire to help others--the
greatest of all our desires, I suppose, and the most fruitless. The
said to me, 'When will your charming nephew be born? What a cheerful,
attractive child he will be, with such a father and mother!' I kept my
face steady and replied, 'I think he may be. Out of sadness shall come
gladness'--it is one of our proverbs. And my answer frightened them
very much, and they told the priests, who were frightened too. Then the
whisper started that the child would be Antichrist. You need not be
the girl, she said, had silent devils, who could do little harm. But
the child would always be speaking and laughing and perverting, and
last of all he would go into the sea and fetch up the Siren into the
air and all the world would see her and hear her sing. As soon as
she sang, the Seven Vials would be opened and the Pope would die and
Mongibello flame, and the veil of Santa Agata would be burned. Then the
boy and the Siren would marry, and together they would rule the world,
for the tourist season was just beginning. They met together and
decided that Giuseppe and the girl must be sent inland until the child
was born, and they subscribed the money. The night before they were
to start there was a full moon and wind from the east, and all along
the coast the sea shot up over the cliffs in silver clouds. It is a
And the hotel-keepers do not like you to be seen, and if we displease
at thinking I should lose them that I went and sat down by my brother
and put my arm round his neck, and he put his arm round me, which
he had not done for more than a year, and we remained thus I don't
and a child's voice said laughing, 'They have pushed her over the
me, took hold of both my hands and sprained my wrists; first my right
one, then my left. No one but Giuseppe would have thought of such a
thing. It hurt more than you would suppose, and I fainted. When I woke
was in America; and one cannot kill a priest. As for Giuseppe, he went
all over the world too, looking for some one else who had seen the
Siren--either a man, or, better still, a woman, for then the child
might still have been born. At last he came to Liverpool--is the
district probable?--and there he began to cough, and spat blood until
has seldom been more than one in a generation, and never in my life
will there be both a man and a woman from whom that child can be born,
who will fetch up the Siren from the sea, and destroy silence, and save
blue-green reflections I saw him colour. I heard him say: "Silence and
loneliness cannot last for ever. It may be a hundred or a thousand
years, but the sea lasts longer, and she shall come out of it and
sing." I would have asked him more, but at that moment the whole cave
darkened, and there rode in through its narrow entrance the returning


                               I
fell in love with me there so nicely twenty years ago. Bob your head a
doll. Colonel Leyland put on his pince-nez, and looked at the mountain
certificated guide. A male person who was hired to carry the luggage,
Ran, which was quite unnecessary, fell, sprained my ankle, screamed
again; and he had to carry me half a mile, so penitent that I thought
he would fling me over a precipice. In that state we reached a certain
Mrs. Harbottle, at sight of whom I burst into tears. But she was so
most people, was always right, had warned me against him; we had had
too cheap: he gave us more than our money's worth. That, as you know,
handsome and what I call agreeable; and he wore beautiful clothes.
We lagged behind, and he picked me flowers. I held out my hand for
them--instead of which he seized it and delivered a love oration which
fir trees were two poles, one painted red, white and green, and the
Colonel Leyland, who made allowances for her brilliancy, managed to
carriage was now crawling round the base of the notorious mountain.
The road was built over the debris which had fallen and which still
fell from its sides; and it had scarred the pine woods with devastating
rivers of white stone. But farther up, Miss Raby remembered, on its
gentler eastern slope, it possessed tranquil hollows, and flower-clad
rocks, and a most tremendous view. She had not been quite as facetious
as her companion supposed. The incident, certainly, had been ludicrous.
But she was somehow able to laugh at it without laughing much at the
loved the Latins, as every one must who is not pressed for time. But
turned away to look at the scenery, for he did not like being entangled
in a mixed conversation. He noted that the farms were more prosperous,
that begging had stopped, that the women were uglier and the men more
rotund, that more nourishing food was being eaten outside the wayside
after I had published. The letter struck me as a little pathetic,
though it was very prosperous: I don't like transfiguring people's
very willing that they should be in different hotels. She, indifferent
to such subtleties, saw no reason why they should not stop under the
same roof, just as she could not see why they should not travel in the
same carriage. On the other hand, she hated anything smart. He had
of gratitude. Colonel Leyland's face grew severe over the want of
you call 'human relations.' A little sentimentality, and the whole army
I'm an officer. You remind me of my Anglo-Indian friends, who were so
shocked when I would be pleasant to some natives. They proved, quite
conclusively, that it would never do for them, and have never seen that
the proof didn't apply. The unlucky people here are always trying to
lead the lucky; and it must be stopped. You've been unlucky: all your
life you've had to command men, and exact prompt obedience and other
army after all. And take care, besides, that you aren't being unjust to
the unlucky people: we're fairly kind to your beloved lower orders, for
"It's becoming usual. But they see through it. They, like ourselves,
see what was wrong. "You are stupid. Kindness and money are both quite
easy to part with. The only thing worth giving away is yourself. Did
her pleasure to pretend that such self-exposure was the only possible
basis of true intercourse, the only gate in the spiritual barrier
that divided class from class. One of her books had dealt with the
subject; and very agreeable reading it made. "What about you?" he added
conversation. He and Elizabeth and the carriage had reached the top of
the hill. The black woods ceased; and they emerged into a valley whose
sides were emerald lawns, rippling and doubling and merging each into
each, yet always with an upward trend, so that it was 2000 feet to
where the rock burst out of the grass and made great mountains, whose
meadows like a ship in the sea, and at its prow, breasting a sharp
incline, stood a majestic tower of new grey stone. As they looked at
the tower it became vocal and spoke magnificently to the mountains, who
new campanile--like the campanile of Venice, only finer--and that the
that the village had made such use of its prosperity. She had feared to
return to the place she had once loved so well, lest she should find
something new. It had never occurred to her that the new thing might be
beautiful. The architect had indeed gone south for his inspiration, and
the tower which stood among the mountains was akin to the tower which
had once stood beside the lagoons. But the birthplace of the bell it
tourists took them for a well-matched couple. There was indeed nothing
offensively literary in Miss Raby's kind angular face; and Colonel
Leyland's profession had made him neat rather than aggressive. They
did very well for a cultured and refined husband and wife, who had
spent their lives admiring the beautiful things with which the world is
churches, ugly churches, churches painted pink with towers like
pumpkins, churches painted white with shingle spires, churches hidden
altogether in the glades of a wood or the folds of a meadow--till the
evening air was full of little voices, with the great voice singing in
their midst. Only the English church, lately built in the Early English
Instead, there was a sound of dressing-gongs, and a vision of
just due. A lady was talking to her mother about an evening dress.
Young men with rackets were talking to young men with alpenstocks.
area, for the best hotels stood outside the village, in elevated or
romantic situations. This display took place every evening in the
season, but only while the diligence arrived. As soon as the last
tourist was suited, the lights went out, and the hotel-keepers, cursing
wood, suggested a distended chalet. But this impression was corrected
by a costly and magnificent view-terrace, the squared stones of which
were visible for miles, and from which, as from some great reservoir,
asphalt paths trickled over the adjacent country. Their carriage,
having ascended a private drive, drew up under a vaulted portico of
pitch-pine, which opened on to this terrace on one side, and into the
covered lounge on the other. There was a whirl of officials--men with
gold braid, smarter men with more gold braid, men smarter still with
no gold braid. Elizabeth assumed an arrogant air, and carried a small
straw basket with difficulty. Colonel Leyland became every inch a
soldier. Miss Raby, whom, in spite of long experience, a large hotel
always flustered, was hurried into an expensive bedroom, and advised to
English and Americans and with rich, hungry Germans. She liked company,
but tonight she was curiously depressed. She seemed to be confronted
the list of excursions, the red plush sofa, the jugs and basins on
which was lithographed a view of the mountains. Where amid such
splendour was there a place for Signor Cantù with his china-bowled
one who has learnt a lesson, "she is unconnected absolutely with us.
notice that I shall not want my room, and say that the luggage is to be
disgorge her. The trunks were carried down, the vehicle in which she
had arrived was recalled. Elizabeth, white with indignation, appeared
in the hall. She paid for beds in which they had not slept, and for
food which they had never eaten. Amidst the whirl of gold-laced
officials, who hoped even in that space of time to have established
a claim to be tipped, she moved towards the door. The guests in the
lounge observed her with amusement, concluding that she had found the
watched the carriage lights descending the hill. "What harm has she
done? What harm is there for that matter? Hotel-keepers always quarrel:
it's no business of ours." He ate a good dinner in silence. Then his

"DEAREST EDWIN,--It is with the greatest diffidence that I write to
you, and I know you will believe me when I say that I do not write
from curiosity. I only require an answer to one plain question. Are
you engaged to Miss Raby or no? Fashions have altered even since my
young days. But, for all that an engagement is still an engagement,
and should be announced at once, to save all parties discomfort.
Though your health has broken down and you have abandoned your
profession, you can still protect the family honour."
made his sight keener. He recognized in this part of his sister's
letter nothing but an automatic conventionality. He was no more moved
chaperone--nothing but a sop to throw in the eyes of the world.
I am not saying a word against Miss Raby, whose books we always
read. Literary people are always unpractical, and we are confident
that she does not know. Perhaps I do not think her the wife for
you; but that is another matter.

"My babes, who all send love (so does Lionel), are at present an
unmitigated joy. One's only anxiety is for the future, when the
crushing expenses of good education will have to be taken into
account.

                                               "Your loving NELLY."
himself and Miss Raby? There had never been a word of marriage, and
would probably never be a word of love. If, instead of seeing each
other frequently, they should come to see each other always it would
be as sage companions, familiar with life, not as egoistic lovers,
craving for infinities of passion which they had no right to demand and
no power to supply. Neither professed to be a virgin soul, or to be
ignorant of the other's limitations and inconsistencies. They scarcely
even made allowances for each other. Toleration implies reserve; and
the greatest safeguard of unruffled intercourse is knowledge. Colonel
Leyland had courage of no mean order: he cared little for the opinion
of people whom he understood. Nelly and Lionel and their babes were
welcome to be shocked or displeased. Miss Raby was an authoress, a kind
of radical; he a soldier, a kind of aristocrat. But the time for their
activities was passing; he was ceasing to fight, she to write. They
could pleasantly spend together their autumn. Nor might they prove the
marrying two thousand a year. But it lent an unacknowledged perfume to
his thoughts. He tore Nelly's letter into little pieces, and dropped
the campanile in the growing light of the moon. "Why have you gone to
be uncomfortable? Why will you interfere in the quarrels of people who
can't understand you, and whom you don't understand? How silly you are
to think you've caused them. You think you've written a book which has
spoilt the place and made the inhabitants corrupt and sordid. I know
just how you think. So you will make yourself unhappy, and go about
letter. In the valley the campanile appeared, rising out of wisps of
idea that man does not live by time alone, that an evening gone may
become like a thousand ages in the courts of heaven--the idea that was
afterwards expounded more philosophically by Maeterlinck. She herself
now declared that it was a tiresome, affected book, and that the title
suggested the dentist's chair. But she had written it when she was
feeling young and happy; and that, rather than maturity, is the hour in
which to formulate a creed. As years pass, the conception may become
more solid, but the desire and the power to impart it to others are
alike weakened. It did not altogether displease her that her earliest
unimaginative circles. Idle people interpreted it to mean that there
was no harm in wasting time, vulgar people that there was no harm in
being fickle, pious people interpreted it as an attack upon morality.
The authoress became well known in society, where her enthusiasm for
the lower classes only lent her an additional charm. That very year
Lady Anstey, Mrs. Heriot, the Marquis of Bamburgh, and many others,
penetrated to Vorta, where the scene of the book was laid. They
returned enthusiastic. Lady Anstey exhibited her water-colour drawings;
by the Marquis of Bamburgh, entitled "The Modern Peasant, and his
liked being off the beaten track went there, and pointed out the way
to others. Miss Raby, by a series of trivial accidents, had never
returned to the village whose rise was so intimately connected with
her own. She had heard from time to time of its progress. It had also
been whispered that an inferior class of tourist was finding it out,
and, fearing to find something spoilt, she had at last a certain
diffidence in returning to scenes which once had given her so much
pleasure. Colonel Leyland persuaded her; he wanted a cool healthy spot
for the summer, where he could read and talk and find walks suitable
for an athletic invalid. Their friends laughed; their acquaintances
gossiped; their relatives were furious. But he was courageous and she
was indifferent. They had accomplished the expedition under the scanty
a great circle, standing away from the village where all life should
have centred. Their illuminated titles, branded on the tranquil evening
haunted her like a nightmare. In her dreams she recalled the portico,
the ostentatious lounge, the polished walnut bureau, the vast rack for
the bedroom keys, the panoramic bedroom crockery, the uniforms of the
officials, and the smell of smart people--which is to some nostrils
quite as depressing as the smell of poor ones. She was not enthusiastic
over the progress of civilisation, knowing by Eastern experiences that
civilisation rarely puts her best foot foremost, and is apt to make
the barbarians immoral and vicious before her compensating qualities
arrive. And here there was no question of progress: the world had more
pathos of a survival. The old landlord had died, and the old landlady
was ill in bed, but the antique spirit had not yet departed. On the
timbered front was still painted the dragon swallowing the child--the
arms of the Milanese Visconti, from whom the Cantùs might well be
descended. For there was something about the little hotel which
compelled a sympathetic guest to believe, for the time at all events,
in aristocracy. The great manner, only to be obtained without effort,
ruled throughout. In each bedroom were three or four beautiful
things--a little piece of silk tapestry, a fragment of rococo carving,
some blue tiles, framed and hung upon the whitewashed wall. There were
pictures in the sitting-rooms and on the stairs--eighteenth-century
pictures in the style of Carlo Dolce and the Caracci--a blue-robed
Mater Dolorosa, a fluttering saint, a magnanimous Alexander with
a receding chin. A debased style--so the superior person and the
textbooks say. Yet, at times, it may have more freshness and
significance than a newly-purchased Fra Angelico. Miss Raby, who had
visited dukes in their residences without a perceptible tremor, felt
The most trivial things--the sofa cushions, the table cloths, the
cases for the pillows--though they might be made of poor materials and
be æsthetically incorrect, inspired her with reverence and humility.
Through this cleanly, gracious dwelling there had once moved Signor
Cantù with his china-bowled pipe, Signora Cantù in her snuff-coloured
attribute to her bad night and her increasing age. Never, she thought,
had she seen people more unattractive and more unworthy than her
fellow-guests. A black-browed woman was holding forth on patriotism and
the duty of English tourists to present an undivided front to foreign
nations. Another woman kept up a feeble lament, like a dribbling tap
which never gathers flow yet never quite ceases, complaining of the
food, the charges, the noise, the clouds, the dust. She liked coming
here herself, she said; but she hardly liked to recommend it to her
friends: it was the kind of hotel one felt like that about. Males were
rare, and in great demand; a young one was describing, amid fits of
decoration of the room. It had been discovered during some repairs;
and, though the surface had been injured in places, the colours were
still bright. Signora Cantù attributed it now to Titian, now to Giotto,
and declared that no one could interpret its meaning; professors and
artists had puzzled themselves in vain. This she said because it
pleased her to say it; the meaning was perfectly clear, and had been
frequently explained to her. Those four figures were sibyls, holding
prophecies of the Nativity. It was uncertain for what original reason
they had been painted high up in the mountains, at the extreme boundary
of Italian art. Now, at all events, they were an invaluable source of
conversation; and many an acquaintance had been opened, and argument
a lugubrious couple, lately returned from the Holy Land, where they
had been cheated shamefully, and their attitude towards religion had
sadly. "Same as their churches; tinsel pretending to be gold, cotton
pretending to be silk, stucco pretending to be marble; same as their
did not get it he would move on to another centre. The English and
American visitors had co-operated, and forced the hotel-keepers to
take action. Now the priests rang a dinner bell, which was endurable.
He believed that "corperation" would do anything: it had been the same
week they got drunk and sang till two. Is that a proper way to go on,
necessity of a new universal religion of the open air. Over his head
stood the four sibyls, gracious for all their clumsiness and crudity,
each proffering a tablet inscribed with concise promise of redemption.
If the old religions had indeed become insufficient for humanity, it
did not seem probable that an adequate substitute would be produced in
Elizabeth, who had been rude overnight and was now tiresomely penitent,
a possible companion. There were a few tables outside the inn, at which
some women sat, drinking beer. Pollarded chestnuts shaded them; and a
low wooden balustrade fenced them off from the village street. On this
balustrade Miss Raby perched, for it gave her a view of the campanile.
A critical eye could discover plenty of faults in its architecture. But
she looked at it all with increasing pleasure, in which was mingled a
find a more comfortable seat. This was the place where the lower
returned to the house full of meat and common sense, one of the many
stained-glass window for the English Church. Might I persuade you to
take tickets? As has been said, it is so important that English people
silly and as grey-haired as myself. This is not a day on which I ought
unaccustomed to that mood, which is termed depressed, but which
certainly gives visions of wider, if greyer, horizons. That morning
her outlook altered. She walked through the village, scarcely noticing
the mountains by which it was still surrounded, or the unaltered
radiance of its sun. But she was fully conscious of something new; of
the indefinable corruption which is produced by the passage of a large
added dust and tobacco smoke and the smell of tired horses. Carriages
were huddled against the church, and underneath the campanile a
woman was guarding a stack of bicycles. The season had been bad for
climbing; and groups of young men in smart Norfolk suits were idling
up and down, waiting to be hired as guides. Two large inexpensive
hotels stood opposite the post office; and in front of them innumerable
little tables surged out into the street. Here, from an early hour in
the morning, eating had gone on, and would continue till a late hour
at night. The customers, chiefly German, refreshed themselves with
cries and with laughter, passing their arms round the waists of their
wives. Then, rising heavily, they departed in single file towards some
view-point, whereon a red flag indicated the possibility of another
meal. The whole population was employed, even down to the little girls,
who worried the guests to buy picture postcards and edelweiss. Vorta
of virility and power. Obscure and happy, its splendid energies had
found employment in wresting a livelihood out of the earth, whence
had come a certain dignity, and kindliness, and love for other men.
Civilisation did not relax these energies, but it had diverted them;
and all the precious qualities, which might have helped to heal the
world, had been destroyed. The family affection, the affection for
the commune, the sane pastoral virtues--all had perished while the
campanile which was to embody them was being built. No villain had
done this thing: it was the work of ladies and gentlemen who were good
and rich and often clever--who, if they thought about the matter at
all, thought that they were conferring a benefit, moral as well as
that terrible text in which there is much semblance of justice: "But
ground floor. The walls were bare; for all the beautiful things were
in the rooms of her guests whom she loved as a good queen might love
her subjects--and the walls were dirty also, for this was Signora
Cantù's own room. But no palace had so fair a ceiling; for from the
wooden beams were suspended a whole dowry of copper vessels--pails,
cauldrons, water pots, of every colour from lustrous black to the
palest pink. It pleased the old lady to look up at these tokens of
prosperity. An American lady had lately departed without them, more
aristocrat. Had she been a great lady of the great century, she
would have gone speedily to the guillotine, and Miss Raby would have
howled approval. Now, with her scanty hair in curl-papers, and the
snuff-coloured shawl spread over her, she entertained the distinguished
authoress with accounts of other distinguished people who had
was dignified. But before long she proceeded to village news, and a
certain bitterness began to show itself. She chronicled deaths with
a kind of melancholy pride. Being old herself, she liked to meditate
on the fairness of Fate, which had not spared her contemporaries, and
often had not spared her juniors. Miss Raby was unaccustomed to extract
such consolation. She too was growing old, but it would have pleased
her better if others could have remained young. She remembered few of
these people well, but deaths were symbolical, just as the death of a
account of a landslip, which had destroyed her little farm. A landslip,
in that valley, never hurried. Under the green coat of turf water
would collect, just as an abscess is formed under the skin. There
would be a lump on the sloping meadow, then the lump would break and
discharge a slowly-moving stream of mud and stones. Then the whole area
seemed to be corrupted; on every side the grass cracked and doubled
into fantastic creases, the trees grew awry, the barns and cottages
collapsed, all the beauty turned gradually to indistinguishable pulp,
became almost too depressed to sympathize. It was a bad season; the
guests did not understand the ways of the hotel; the servants did not
understand the guests; she was told she ought to have a concierge. But
takes all my guests. He has taken all the English nobility, and the
best Americans, and all my old Milanese friends. He slanders me up and
down the valley, saying that the drains are bad. The hotel-keepers
will not recommend me; they send on their guests to him, because he
pays them five per cent. for every one they send. He pays the drivers,
he pays the porters, he pays the guides. He pays the band, so that it
hardly ever plays down in the village. He even pays the little children
to say my drains are bad. He and his wife and his concierge, they mean
about the room, speaking, as was her habit, what was true rather than
what was intelligible. "Try not to be so angry with your son. You don't
know what he had to contend with. You don't know who led him into it.
Some one else may be to blame. And whoever it may be--you will remember
will not ruin me. I seem poor, but he has borrowed--too much. That
the world. Most of the evil we see is the result of little faults--of
the window; and a cloud of dust, heavy with petrol, entered. A passing
motor car had twitched over a table. Much beer had been spilt, and a
exhausted her, and she lay motionless, with closed eyes. Over her head
two copper vases clinked gently in the sudden gust of wind. Miss Raby
had been on the point of a great dramatic confession, of a touching
appeal for forgiveness. Her words were ready; her words always were
ready. But she looked at those closed eyes, that suffering enfeebled
done all that was possible. She had done much evil. It only remained
for her to fold her hands and to wait, till her ugliness and her
incompetence went the way of beauty and strength. Before her eyes
there arose the pleasant face of Colonel Leyland, with whom she might
harmlessly conclude her days. He would not be stimulating, but it did
not seem desirable that she should be stimulated. It would be better if
her faculties did close, if the senseless activity of her brain and
her tongue were gradually numbed. For the first time in her life, she
the vulgarity of the former and the ingratitude of the latter, whom
she had been kind to long ago, when he first wandered up from Italy,
an obscure boy. Now he had sided against her. Such was the reward of
vessels vibrated responsively. Miss Raby lifted her hands, not to her
ears but to her eyes. In her enfeebled state, the throbbing note of the
Colonel Leyland. But he, apparently, had walked down there to see
them, and the only thing to do was to wait, and to justify the wait
by ordering some refreshment. So Miss Raby had afternoon tea, while
Elizabeth behaved like a perfect lady over an ice, occasionally
turning the spoon upside down in the mouth when she saw that no one
was looking. The under-waiters were clearing cups and glasses off the
marble-topped tables, and the gold-laced officials were rearranging
the wicker chairs into seductive groups of three and two. Here and
there the visitors lingered among their crumbs, and the Russian
Prince had fallen asleep in a prominent and ungraceful position. But
most people had started for a little walk before dinner, or had
gone to play tennis, or had taken a book under a tree. The weather
was delightful, and the sun had so far declined that its light had
become spiritualized, suggesting new substance as well as new colour
in everything on which it fell. From her seat Miss Raby could see
the great precipices under which they had passed the day before; and
beyond those precipices she could see Italy--the Val d'Aprile, the Val
Senese and the mountains she had named "The Beasts of the South." All
day those mountains were insignificant--distant chips of white or grey
stone. But the evening sun transfigured them, and they would sit up
can, and make her go with you. If you see Colonel Leyland, tell him I
her heart had been softened by the ice. She saw that Miss Raby did not
look well. Possibly the course of love was running roughly. And indeed
gentlemen must be treated with tact, especially when both parties are
diminished. From the hall behind came the genteel sniggers of those two
most vile creatures, a young lady behind the bureau and a young man in
a frock coat who shows new arrivals to their rooms. Some of the porters
joined them, standing at a suitable distance. At last only Miss Raby,
all languages fluently, and some well. He was still active, and had
evidently once been muscular. But either his life or his time of life
had been unkind to his figure: in a few years he would certainly
be fat. His face was less easy to decipher. He was engaged in the
unquestioning performance of his duty, and that is not a moment for
self-revelation. He opened the windows, he filled the match-boxes, he
flicked the little tables with a duster, always keeping an eye on the
door in case any one arrived without luggage, or left without paying.
He touched an electric bell, and a waiter flew up and cleared away
Miss Raby's tea things. He touched another bell, and sent an underling
to tidy up some fragments of paper which had fallen out of a bedroom
window. Then "Excuse me, madam!" and he had picked up Miss Raby's
handkerchief with a slight bow. He seemed to bear her no grudge for her
abrupt departure of the preceding evening. Perhaps it was into his hand
that she had dropped a tip. Perhaps he did not remember she had been
with vague memories. Before she could thank him he was back in the
doorway, standing sideways, so that the slight curve of his stomach was
outlined against the view. He was speaking to a youth of athletic but
melancholy appearance, who was fidgeting in the portico without. "I
told you the percentage," she heard. "If you had agreed to it, I would
cabman, and something goes to the man who whistled for him. We tip
the man who lights up the stalactite grotto with magnesium wire, and
something goes to the boatman who brought us there. We tip the waiter
in the restaurant, and something goes off the waiter's wages. A vast
machinery, whose existence we seldom realize, promotes the distribution
of our wealth. When the concierge returned, Miss Raby asked: "And what
she was unkind, but because she wished to discover what qualities, if
any, lurked beneath that civil, efficient exterior. And the spirit of
to her question, he would have revealed something. But the concierge
had no reason to pay even lip service to logic. He replied: "Yes,
madam! this is perfect weather, both for our visitors and for the hay,"
lower classes, acknowledged a defeat. She watched the man spreading
out the postcards, helpful yet not obtrusive, alert yet deferential.
She watched him make the bishop buy more than he wanted. This was the
man who had talked of love to her upon the mountain. But hitherto
he had only revealed his identity by chance gestures bequeathed to
him at birth. Intercourse with the gentle classes had required new
qualities--civility, omniscience, imperturbability. It was the old
answer: the gentle classes were responsible for him. It is inevitable,
vulgarity. He had not made himself. It was even absurd to regret
his transformation from an athlete: his greasy stoutness, his big
black kiss-curl, his waxed moustache, his chin which was dividing
and propagating itself like some primitive form of life. In England,
nearly twenty years before, she had altered his figure as well as his
who makes a world and beholds that it is bad. She desired to ask pardon
of her creatures, even though they were too poorly formed to grant it.
The longing to confess, which she had suppressed that morning beside
the bed of Signora Cantù, broke out again with the violence of a
physical desire. When the bishop had gone she renewed the conversation,
though on different lines, saying: "Yes, it is beautiful weather. I
The fresco is very beautiful." He was too shrewd to object to a little
full of coins, and asked him hopelessly "whatever they were worth." He
explained, and gave her change: Miss Raby was not sure that he gave her
guests. One of them tipped him; he said, "Thank you." The other did not
tip him; he said, "Thank you," all the same but not in the same way.
them both. He clapped on a felt hat, and departed at full speed for a
that they had met before. All day she had sought for a spark of life,
and it might be summoned by pointing to that other fire which she
discerned, far back in the travelled distance, high up in the mountains
of youth. What he would do, if he also discerned it, she did not know;
but she hoped that he would become alive, that he at all events would
escape the general doom which she had prepared for the place and the
people. And what she would do, during their joint contemplation, she
hardened her. After much pain, respectability becomes ludicrous. And
she had only to overcome the difficulty of Feo's being a man, not the
difficulty of his being a concierge. She had never observed that
spiritual reticence towards social inferiors which is usual at the
expansive smile. "Ah!" he said, taking off his peaked cap, "I remember
you perfectly, madam. What a pleasure, if I may say so, to meet you
of fairyland stretched behind him. Her sanity forsook her, and she
said gently: "Will you misunderstand me, if I say that I have never
forgotten what had happened, even forgotten what he was like when he
chain which lay in a furrow of his waistcoat. He ran away to warn some
poorly dressed children off the view-terrace. When he returned she
that great mountain, round which the road goes south. Look half-way up,
on its eastern side--where the flowers are. It was there that you once
she was flushed, and concluded that some one had been rude to her.
Since their relations were somewhat anomalous, he was all the more
had been laid for him. "The lady imagined it. I swear, sir--I meant
nothing. I was a lad. It was before I learnt behaviour. I had even
trembling tones that were meant to be nonchalant. "Shall we go a little
he revealed a new emotion, even less agreeable to her. His shoulders
straightened, he developed an irresistible smile, and, when he saw that
the things she had seen at Vorta. But its effect on her was memorable.
It evoked a complete vision of that same man as he had been twenty
years before. She could see him to the smallest detail of his clothes
or his hair, the flowers in his hand, the graze on his wrist, the heavy
bundle that he had loosed from his back, so that he might speak as a
freeman. She could hear his voice, neither insolent nor diffident,
never threatening, never apologizing, urging her first in the studied
phrases he had learnt from books, then, as his passion grew, becoming
incoherent, crying that she must believe him, that she must love him
in return, that she must fly with him to Italy, where they would live
for ever, always happy, always young. She had cried out then, as a
young lady should, and had thanked him not to insult her. And now, in
her middle age, she cried out again, because the sudden shock and the
contrast had worked a revelation. "Don't think I'm in love with you
incident upon the mountain had been one of the great moments of her
life--perhaps the greatest, certainly the most enduring: that she had
drawn unacknowledged power and inspiration from it, just as trees draw
vigour from a subterranean spring. Never again could she think of it
as a half-humorous episode in her development. There was more reality
in it than in all the years of success and varied achievement which
had followed, and which it had rendered possible. For all her correct
behaviour and lady-like display, she had been in love with Feo, and
she had never loved so greatly again. A presumptuous boy had taken her
to the gates of heaven; and, though she would not enter with him, the
eternal remembrance of the vision had made life seem endurable and
the situation off as normal. He was saving her, for he liked her very
much, and it pained him when she was foolish. But her last remark to
Feo had frightened him; and he began to feel that he must save himself.
They were no longer alone. The bureau lady and the young gentleman
were listening breathlessly, and the porters were tittering at the
discomfiture of their superior. A French lady had spread amongst the
guests the agreeable news that an Englishman had surprised his wife
making love to the concierge. On the terrace outside, a mother waved
away her daughters. The bishop was preparing, very leisurely, for a
knew till now that I had loved him and that it was a mere chance--a
disturb or prevent her. She was still detached, looking back at a fire
upon the mountains, marvelling at its increased radiance, but too far
off to feel its heat. And by speaking out she believed, pathetically
enough, that she was making herself intelligible. Her remark seemed
continued, addressing Feo, who was losing his gallant air, and becoming
bewildered. "They're hardly enough to grow old on. I think I would give
all my imagination, all my skill with words, if I could recapture one
could confess, I think I should be happier. I have done so much harm in
me. I remembered that you had once been very gracious to me--yes,
gracious: there is no other word. But I have harmed you also: how could
a little, and was determined to end the distressing scene, in which his
reputation was endangered, and his vanity aroused only to be rebuffed.
"It is you who are mistaken. You have done me no harm at all. You have
built, we all grow richer. When I first came here, I was a common
ignorant porter who carried luggage over the passes; I worked, I found
opportunities, I was pleasing to the visitors--and now!" He checked
himself suddenly. "Of course I am still but a poor man. My wife and
up. He shall live among rich people. He shall see that they are not the
vile creatures he supposes, always clamouring for respect and deference
and trying to buy them with money. Rich people are good: they are
capable of sympathy and love: they are fond of the truth; and when they
are with each other they are clever. Your boy shall learn this, and he
shall try to teach it to you. And when he grows up, if God is good to
him he shall teach the rich: he shall teach them not to be stupid to
the poor. I have tried myself, and people buy my books and say that
they are good, and smile and lay them down. But I know this: so long as
the stupidity exists, not only our charities and missions and schools,
one more effort to rescue Miss Raby. "Je vous prie de ne pas----" he
began gruffly, and then stopped, for he remembered that the concierge
must know French. But Feo was not attending, nor, of course, had
he attended to the lady's prophecies. He was wondering if he could
persuade his wife to give up the little boy, and, if he did, how much
I have done so much evil I bring some good. I am tired of memories,
though they have been very beautiful. Now, Feo, I want you to give me
something else: a living boy. I shall always puzzle you; and I cannot
help it. I have changed so much since we met, and I have changed you
also. We are both new people. Remember that; for I want to ask you one
question before we part, and I cannot see why you shouldn't answer it.
opinion about that day at all. But he did not make the attempt. He saw
again that he was menaced by an ugly, withered, elderly woman, who was
trying to destroy his reputation and his domestic peace. He shrank
towards Colonel Leyland, and faltered: "Madam, you must excuse me, but
I had rather you did not see my wife; she is so sharp. You are most
movement of attack. From the hall behind came exclamations of horror
She looked at the dishevelled Feo, fat, perspiring, and unattractive,
and smiled sadly at her own stupidity, not at his. It was useless to
speak to him again; her talk had scared away his competence and his
civility, and scarcely anything was left. He was hardly more human than
a frightened rabbit. "Poor man," she murmured, "I have only vexed him.
But I wish he would have given me the boy. And I wish he would have
answered my question, if only out of pity. He does not know the sort
of thing that keeps me alive." She was looking at Colonel Leyland, and
so discovered that he too was discomposed. It was her peculiarity that
she could only attend to the person she was speaking with, and forgot
the personality of the listeners. "I have been vexing you as well: I am
once. But for him she had no careful explanation, no tender pity.
Here was a man who was well born and well educated, who had all those
things called advantages, who imagined himself full of insight and
cultivation and knowledge of mankind. And he had proved himself to be
at the exact spiritual level of the man who had no advantages, who was
poor and had been made vulgar, whose early virtue had been destroyed by
circumstance, whose manliness and simplicity had perished in serving
the rich. If Colonel Leyland also believed that she was now in love
with Feo, she would not exert herself to undeceive him. Nor indeed
of the campanile, and she turned from the men towards it with a motion
of love. But that day was not to close without the frustration of every
hope. The sound inspired Feo to make conversation and, as the mountains
reverberated, he said: "Is it not unfortunate, sir? A gentleman went to
see our fine new tower this morning and he believes that the land is
slipping from underneath, and that it will fall. Of course it will not
placid conclusion. Before they had realized it, she had taken up her
final failure, there had been vouchsafed to her a vision of herself,
and she saw that she had lived worthily. She was conscious of a triumph
over experience and earthly facts, a triumph magnificent, cold, hardly
human, whose existence no one but herself would ever surmise. From the
view-terrace she looked down on the perishing and perishable beauty
of the valley, and, though she loved it no less, it seemed to be
infinitely distant, like a valley in a star. At that moment, if kind
voices had called her from the hotel, she would not have returned. "I
he knew she must be unhappy. But she had hurt him too much; she had
exposed her thoughts and desires to a man of another class. Not only
she, but he himself and all their equals, were degraded by it. She had
there pressed out a stream of excited servants, filling the lounge as
an operatic chorus fills the stage, and announcing the approach of the
manager. It was impossible to pretend that nothing had happened. The
understand----Oh, thank you, sir, thank you very much: thank you very
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you
are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
    the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
    you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
    to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
    agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
    Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
    within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
    legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
    payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
    Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
    Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
    Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
    you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
    does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
    License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
    copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
    all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
    works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
    any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
    electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
    receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
    distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
