
                        By FRITZ LEIBER

                  Illustrated by ED ALEXANDER

       [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
             Galaxy Science Fiction December 1951.
     Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
     the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




            The dark star passed, bringing with it
            eternal night and turning history into
            incredible myth in a single generation!
it full and most of the warmth had leaked from my fingers when I saw
young lady's face all glowing in the dark and looking at me from the
fifth floor of the opposite apartment, which hereabouts is the floor
just above the white blanket of frozen air. I'd never seen a live young
lady before, except in the old magazines--Sis is just a kid and Ma is
pretty sick and miserable--and it gave me such a start that I dropped
the pail. Who wouldn't, knowing everyone on Earth was dead except Pa
see things now and then. Ma has some pretty bad ones, to judge from
the way she bugs her eyes at nothing and just screams and screams and
huddles back against the blankets hanging around the Nest. Pa says it
apartment, I got an idea of what Ma might be feeling at those times,
for I saw it wasn't a young lady at all but simply a light--a tiny
light that moved stealthily from window to window, just as if one
of the cruel little stars had come down out of the airless sky to
investigate why the Earth had gone away from the Sun, and maybe to hunt
down something to torment or terrify, now that the Earth didn't have
shaking, and almost froze my feet and did frost my helmet so solid on
the inside that I couldn't have seen the light even if it had come out
blankets and rugs Pa has got hung around to slow down the escape of
air from the Nest, and I wasn't quite so scared. I began to hear the
tick-ticking of the clocks in the Nest and knew I was getting back
into air, because there's no sound outside in the vacuum, of course.
But my mind was still crawly and uneasy as I pushed through the last
blankets--Pa's got them faced with aluminum foil to hold in the
four of us and our things. The floor is covered with thick woolly
rugs. Three of the sides are blankets, and the blankets roofing it
touch Pa's head. He tells me it's inside a much bigger room, but I've
and books and other stuff, and on top of it a whole row of clocks. Pa's
very fussy about keeping them wound. He says we must never forget time,
which there is a fire that must never go out. It keeps us from freezing
and does a lot more besides. One of us must always watch it. Some of
the clocks are alarm and we can use them to remind us. In the early
days there was only Ma to take turns with Pa--I think of that when she
of him that way: a tall man sitting cross-legged, frowning anxiously
at the fire, his lined face golden in its light, and every so often
carefully placing on it a piece of coal from the big heap beside it. Pa
tells me there used to be guardians of the fire sometimes in the very
old days--vestal virgins, he calls them--although there was unfrozen
pail from me and bawl me out for loitering--he'd spotted my frozen
helmet right off. That roused Ma and she joined in picking on me. She's
always trying to get the load off her feelings, Pa explains. He shut
the Nest, you could really feel its coldness. It just seemed to suck
the heat out of everything. Even the flames cringed away from it as Pa
It slowly melts and vanishes and refreshes the Nest and feeds the
fire. The blankets keep it from escaping too fast. Pa'd like to seal
the whole place, but he can't--building's too earthquake-twisted, and
something to stop them. We have to watch sharp not to let the air run
low. Pa always keeps a big reserve supply of it in buckets behind
the first blankets, along with extra coal and cans of food and other
things, such as pails of snow to melt for water. We have to go way down
to the bottom floor for that stuff, which is a mean trip, and get it
and made a blanket ten feet thick or so everywhere, and then down on
top of that dropped the crystals of frozen air, making another white
water, you have to make sure you don't go too high and get any of that
stuff mixed in, for it would put you to sleep, maybe for good, and make
the fire go out. Next there's the nitrogen, which doesn't count one way
or the other, though it's the biggest part of the blanket. On top of
that and easy to get at, which is lucky for us, there's the oxygen that
keeps us alive. Pa says we live better than kings ever did, breathing
pure oxygen, but we're used to it and don't notice. Finally, at the
very top, there's a slick of liquid helium, which is funny stuff.
All of these gases in neat separate layers. Like a pussy caffay, Pa
I'd ducked out of my helmet and while I was still climbing out of my
suit, I cut loose. Right away Ma got nervous and began making eyes at
the entry-slit in the blankets and wringing her hands together--the
hand where she'd lost three fingers from frostbite inside the good one,
as usual. I could tell that Pa was annoyed at me scaring her and wanted
that's about as cold as can be, and just when you think matter
would be frozen dead, it takes on a strange new life. A slimy stuff
comes crawling toward the Nest, just like an animal snuffing for
heat--that's the liquid helium. And once, when I was little, a bolt of
lightning--not even Pa could figure where it came from--hit the nearby
steeple and crawled up and down it for weeks, until the glow finally
in, too, but Pa quieted them. We started climbing into our outside
clothes--mine had been warming by the fire. Pa made them. They have
plastic headpieces that were once big double-duty transparent food
cans, but they keep heat and air in and can replace the air for a
little while, long enough for our trips for water and coal and food and
outside there, waiting to get us. I've felt it for years--something
that's part of the cold and hates all warmth and wants to destroy the
Nest. It's been watching us all this time, and now it's coming after
reached in and shook the long metal rod that goes up the chimney and
knocks off the ice that keeps trying to clog it. Once a week he goes up
on the roof to check if it's working all right. That's our worst trip
too. If it gets low or doesn't seem to be boiling fast enough, fetch
another bucket from behind the blanket. But mind your hands. Use the
told. Ma quieted down pretty suddenly, though her eyes were still kind
of wild as she watched Pa fix on his helmet tight and pick up a pail
afraid to go by myself, but when Pa's along I always want to hold on to
him. Habit, I guess, and then there's no denying that this time I was a
heard the last radio voices fade away years ago, and had seen some of
the last folks die who weren't as lucky or well-protected as us. So we
knew that if there was something groping around out there, it couldn't
old days, but then every morning the Sun would come and chase it away.
I have to take his word for that, not ever remembering the Sun as being
anything more than a big star. You see, I hadn't been born when the
dark star snatched us away from the Sun, and by now it's dragged us out
beyond the orbit of the planet Pluto, Pa says, and taking us farther
dark star that wanted us, and if that was why it had captured the
Earth. Just then we came to the end of the corridor and I followed Pa
beautiful. The starlight lets you see it pretty well--there's quite a
bit of light in those steady points speckling the blackness above. (Pa
says the stars used to twinkle once, but that was because there was
air.) We are on a hill and the shimmery plain drops away from us and
then flattens out, cut up into neat squares by the troughs that used to
be streets. I sometimes make my mashed potatoes look like it, before I
by rounded caps of air crystals, like the fur hood Ma wears, only
whiter. On those buildings you can see the darker squares of windows,
underlined by white dashes of air crystals. Some of them are on a
slant, for many of the buildings are pretty badly twisted by the quakes
of the cold, other icicles of frozen air that melted on the roofs and
dripped and froze again. Sometimes one of those icicles will catch the
light of a star and send it to you so brightly you think the star has
swooped into the city. That was one of the things Pa had been thinking
of when I told him about the light, but I had thought of it myself
to point out the windows to him. But there wasn't any light moving
around inside them now, or anywhere else. To my surprise, Pa didn't
bawl me out and tell me I'd been seeing things. He looked all around
quite a while after filling his pail, and just as we were going inside
he whipped around without warning, as if to take some peeping thing
that again, son, don't tell the others. Your Ma's sort of nervous these
days and we owe her all the feeling of safety we can give her. Once--it
was when your sister was born--I was ready to give up and die, but your
Mother kept me trying. Another time she kept the fire going a whole
week all by herself when I was sick. Nursed me and took care of the two
tossing a ball around? Courage is like a ball, son. A person can hold
it only so long, and then he's got to toss it to someone else. When
it's tossed your way, you've got to catch it and hold it tight--and
hope there'll be someone else to toss it to when you get tired of being
didn't wipe away the thing outside from the back of my mind--or the
the Nest and took off our outside clothes, Pa laughed about it all and
told them it was nothing and kidded me for having such an imagination,
but his words fell flat. He didn't convince Ma and Sis any more than
he did me. It looked for a minute like we were all fumbling the
courage-ball. Something had to be done, and almost before I knew what
I was going to say, I heard myself asking Pa to tell us about the old
to listen to it, and he got my idea. So we were all settled around the
fire in a wink, and Ma pushed up some cans to thaw for supper, and Pa
began. Before he did, though, I noticed him casually get a hammer from
thread of it in my sleep--though Pa always puts in a new detail or two
steady and warm, and the people on it fixing to make money and wars and
have a good time and get power and treat each other right or wrong,
when without warning there comes charging out of space this dead star,
any more than I can believe in the swarming number of them. Imagine
people getting ready for the horrible sort of war they were cooking up.
Wanting it even, or at least wishing it were over so as to end their
nervousness. As if all folks didn't have to hang together and pool
every bit of warmth just to keep alive. And how can they have hoped to
cross with us once in a while and was probably cross with all those
folks. Still, some of the things I read in the old magazines sound
there wasn't much time to get ready. At the beginning they tried
to keep it a secret from most people, but then the truth came out,
water!--and people seeing stars blotted out by something on a clear
night. First off they thought it would hit the Sun, and then they
thought it would hit the Earth. There was even the start of a rush to
get to a place called China, because people thought the star would hit
on the other side. But then they found it wasn't going to hit either
get involved. The Sun and the newcomer fought over the Earth for a
little while--pulling it this way and that, like two dogs growling
over a bone, Pa described it this time--and then the newcomer won and
carried us off. The Sun got a consolation prize, though. At the last
worse than anything before. It was also the time of the Big Jerk, as Pa
calls it, when all Earth got yanked suddenly, just as Pa has done to
me once or twice, grabbing me by the collar to do it, when I've been
in the opposite direction, and it had to wrench the world considerably
was settled down in its new orbit around the dark star. But it was
pretty terrible while it lasted. Pa says that all sorts of cliffs and
buildings toppled, oceans slopped over, swamps and sandy deserts gave
great sliding surges that buried nearby lands. Earth was almost jerked
out of its atmosphere blanket and the air got so thin in spots that
people keeled over and fainted--though of course, at the same time,
they were getting knocked down by the Big Jerk and maybe their bones
were scared or brave or crazy or stunned, or all four, but he's sort of
leery of the subject, and he was again tonight. He says he was mostly
what was going to happen--they'd known we'd get captured and our air
would freeze--and they'd been working like mad to fix up a place with
airtight walls and doors, and insulation against the cold, and big
supplies of food and fuel and water and bottled air. But the place
got smashed in the last earthquakes and all Pa's friends were killed
then and in the Big Jerk. So he had to start over and throw the Nest
together quick without any advantages, just using any stuff he could
any time to keep an eye on how other folks behaved, either then or
in the Big Freeze that followed--followed very quick, you know, both
because the dark star was pulling us away very fast and because Earth's
rotation had been slowed in the tug-of-war, so that the nights were ten
frozen folk I've seen, a few of them in other rooms in our building,
others clustered around the furnaces in the basements where we go for
a leg in splints. In another, a man and woman are huddled together in
a bed with heaps of covers over them. You can just see their heads
peeking out, close together. And in another a beautiful young lady is
sitting with a pile of wraps huddled around her, looking hopefully
toward the door, as if waiting for someone who never came back with
warmth and food. They're all still and stiff as statues, of course, but
he still had a fair supply of batteries and could afford to waste
a little light. They scared me pretty bad and made my heart pound,
off another scare, I got to thinking of the frozen folk again. All of a
sudden I got an idea that scared me worse than anything yet. You see,
I'd just remembered the face I'd thought I'd seen in the window. I'd
if they were like the liquid helium that got a new lease on life
and started crawling toward the heat just when you thought its
molecules ought to freeze solid forever? Or like the electricity that
moves endlessly when it's just about as cold as that? What if the
ever-growing cold, with the temperature creeping down the last few
degrees to the last zero, had mysteriously wakened the frozen folk to
from the dark star and making the frozen folk move, using them to do
its work. That would fit with both things I'd seen--the beautiful young
eyes, creeping, crawling, snuffing their way, following the heat to the
badly to tell the others my fears, but I remembered what Pa had said
the use of dragging it out for a few years? Why prolong a doomed
existence of hard work and cold and loneliness? The human race is done.
The Earth is done. Why not give up, I asked myself--and all of a sudden
Pa was saying. "The earth's always been a lonely place, millions of
miles from the next planet. And no matter how long the human race might
have lived, the end would have come some night. Those things don't
matter. What matters is that life is good. It has a lovely texture,
like some rich cloth or fur, or the petals of flowers--you've seen
pictures of those, but I can't describe how they feel--or the fire's
glow. It makes everything else worth while. And that's as true for the
inmost blanket trembled and bulged a little. Just as if they were
heard the steps, too, and was talking loud so we maybe wouldn't hear
them, "right then and there I told myself that I was going on as if
we had all eternity ahead of us. I'd have children and teach them all
I could. I'd get them to read books. I'd plan for the future, try to
enlarge and seal the Nest. I'd do what I could to keep everything
beautiful and growing. I'd keep alive my feeling of wonder even at the
light somewhere behind it. Pa's voice stopped and his eyes turned to
the widening slit and his hand went out until it touched and gripped
there looking at us the strangest way, and she carried something
bright and unwinking in her hand. And two other faces peered over her
beats before I realized she was wearing a suit and helmet like Pa's
homemade ones, only fancier, and that the men were, too--and that the
frozen folk certainly wouldn't be wearing those. Also, I noticed that
survive; we'd just thought so, for natural enough reasons. These three
people had survived, and quite a few others with them. And when we
from atomic energy. Just using the uranium and plutonium intended
for bombs, they had enough to go on for thousands of years. They had
a regular little airtight city, with air-locks and all. They even
generated electric light and grew plants and animals by it. (At this Pa
can't maintain an air supply without hermetic sealing. It's simply
Meanwhile, the young lady kept looking around at us as if we were
saints, and telling us we'd done something amazing, and suddenly she
find any in a place like this. They had rocket ships at Los Alamos and
plenty of chemical fuel. As for liquid oxygen, all you had to do was
got things going smoothly at Los Alamos, which had taken years, they'd
decided to make some trips to likely places where there might be other
survivors. No good trying long-distance radio signals, of course, since
around the world at Harwell and Tanna Tuva. And now they'd been giving
our city a look, not really expecting to find anything. But they had an
instrument that noticed the faintest heat waves and it had told them
there was something warm down here, so they'd landed to investigate.
Of course we hadn't heard them land, since there was no air to carry
the sound, and they'd had to investigate around quite a while before
finding us. Their instruments had given them a wrong steer and they'd
to the men how he worked the fire and got rid of the ice in the chimney
and all that. Ma had perked up wonderfully and was showing the young
lady her cooking and sewing stuff, and even asking about how the women
dressed at Los Alamos. The strangers marveled at everything and praised
it to the skies. I could tell from the way they wrinkled their noses
that they found the Nest a bit smelly, but they never mentioned that at
things, and it wasn't until they were all getting groggy that he looked
and found the air had all boiled away in the pail. He got another
bucket of air quick from behind the blankets. Of course that started
them all laughing and jabbering again. The newcomers even got a little
to Ma all the time and hid her face when anybody looked at her. I felt
pretty uncomfortable and disturbed myself, even about the young lady.
Glimpsing her outside there, I'd had all sorts of mushy thoughts, but
now I was just embarrassed and scared of her, even though she tried to
as if that were taken for granted, I could see that something of the
same feeling struck Pa and Ma, too. Pa got very silent all of a sudden
and Ma kept telling the young lady, "But I wouldn't know how to act
the idea. As Pa kept saying, "It just doesn't seem right to let this
decided yet just what will happen. Maybe the Nest will be kept up as
what one of the strangers called a "survival school." Or maybe we will
join the pioneers who are going to try to establish a new colony at the
lot about Los Alamos and those other tremendous colonies. I have a
"Your mother doesn't feel so hopeless any more. Neither do I, for that
matter, not having to carry the whole responsibility for keeping the
boiling away and Ma and Sis sleeping in the warmth and the flickering
kind of. "It's so small and there's just the four of us. I get scared
the little pile and grinned suddenly and put a couple of handfuls on,
the world was that it kept getting smaller and smaller, till it ended
with just the Nest. Now it'll be good to have a real huge world again,
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you
are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
    the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
    you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
    to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
    agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
    Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
    within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
    legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
    payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
    Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
    Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
    Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
    you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
    does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
    License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
    copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
    all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
    works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
    any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
    electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
    receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
    distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
