Allied Medical Sciences stood out like a cut diamond in a handful
of gravel. "Wanted," it read, "Veterinarian--for residency in active
livestock operation. Single recent graduate preferred. Quarters and
service furnished. Well-equipped hospital. Five-year contract, renewal
option, starting salary 15,000 cr./annum with periodic increases. State
age, school, marital status, and enclose recent tri-di with application.
Nothing that paid a salary that large could possibly be on the level.
Fifteen thousand a year was top pay even on Beta, and an offer like this
for a new graduate was unheard of--unless Kardon was in the middle of an
inflation. But Kardon wasn't. The planet's financial status was A-1.
He knew. He'd checked that immediately after landing. Whatever might
be wrong with Kardon, it wasn't her currency. The rate of exchange was
three thousand a year for living expenses, that would leave sixty-plenty
of capital to start a clinic. The banks couldn't turn him down if he had
spending the money he didn't have. He had 231 credits plus a few
halves, tenths, and hundredths, a diploma in veterinary medicine, some
textbooks, a few instruments, and a first-class spaceman's ticket. By
watching his expenses he had enough money to live here for a month and
if nothing came of his efforts to find a job on this planet, there was
of Man. At two months per planet, not figuring transit time, it would
take more than a thousand Galactic Standard years to visit them all, and
a man could look forward to scarcely more than five hundred at best. The
habitat of Man had become too large. There wasn't time to explore every
position that fitted. The trouble was--if the standards were too high
the jobs were too scarce. Despite the chronic shortage of veterinarians
throughout the Brotherhood, there was a peculiar reluctance on the part
of established practitioners to welcome recent graduates. Most of the
ads in the professional journals read "State salary desired," which was
nothing more than economic blackmail--a bald-faced attempt to get as
much for as little as possible. Kennon grimaced wryly. He'd be damned if
he'd sell his training for six thousand a year. Slave labor, that's what
it was. There were a dozen ads like that in the Journal. Well, he'd give
them a trial, but he'd ask eight thousand and full GEA benefits. Eight
the view wall and began composing another of the series of letters that
had begun months ago in time and parsecs away in space. His voice was a
wall. Albertsville was a nice town, too young for slums, too new for
overpopulation. The white buildings were the color of winter butter in
the warm yellow sunlight as the city drowsed in the noonday heat. It
nestled snugly in the center of a bowl-shaped valley whose surrounding
forest clad hills gave mute confirmation to the fact that Kardon
was still primitive, an unsettled world that had not yet reached the
explosive stage of population growth that presaged maturity. But that
was no disadvantage. In fact, Kennon liked it. Living could be fun on a
Kardon less than five hundred years ago, and in such a short time one
was integrated its population was scarcely more than two hundred
million. It would be some time yet before this world would achieve a
Class I status. However, a Class II planet had some advantages. What it
although to the casual eye he was a typical representative of the
Medico-Technological Civilization, long legged, fair haired, and short
bodied with the typical Betan squint that left his eyes mere slits
behind thick lashes and heavy brows. The difference was internal rather
Shortliner and most of his formative years had been spent in space. To
Kennon, accustomed to the timeless horror of hyper space, all planets
were good, broad open places where a man could breathe unfiltered air
and look for miles across distances unbroken by dually bulk heads and
safety shields. On a planet there were spaciousness and freedom and
after the claustrophobic confinement of a hyper ship any world was
paradise. Kennon sighed, finished his letters, and placed them in the
Accustomed to the slower pace of Beta he had expected a week would
elapse before the first reply, but within twenty-four hours nine of his
twelve inquiries were returned. Five expressed the expected "Thank you
but I feel that your asking salary is a bit high in view of your lack
of experience." Three were frankly interested and requested a personal
interview. And the last was the letter, outstanding in its quietly
Outworld Enterprises Incorporated and bring this letter and suitable
identifications?" Kennon chuckled. Would he? There was no question about
it. The address, 200 Central Avenue, was only a few blocks away. In
fact, he could see the building from his window, a tall functional block
of durilium and plastic, soaring above the others on the street, the
sunlight gleaming off its clean square lines. He eyed it curiously,
and slipped them into one of the message tubes beside her desk. "It will
only be a moment, Doctor," she said impersonally. "Would you care to sit
she was right. It was only a minute until the message tube clicked
and popped a capsule onto the girl's desk. She opened it, and removed
Kennon's I.D. and a small yellow plastic rectangle. Her eyes widened at
scanner slot and you'll be taken to the correct floor. The offices you
want will be at the end of the corridor to the left. You'll find any
other data you may need on the card in case you get lost." She looked at
him with a curious mixture of surprise and respect as she handed him the
entered the grav-shaft. There was the usual moment of heaviness as
the shaft whisked him upward and deposited him in front of a thickly
directions. No wonder she had looked respectful. But what was he doing
here? The employment of a veterinarian wasn't important enough to demand
the attention of a senior executive. The personnel section could handle
the details of his application as well as not. He shrugged. Perhaps
veterinarians were more important on Kardon. He didn't know a thing
reception room, smiled uncertainly at the woman behind the desk, and
Alexander, President of Outworld Enterprises--a lean, dark, wolfish man
in his early sixties--eyed Kennon with a flat predatory intentness that
was oddly disquieting. His stare combined the analytical inspection
of the pathologist, the probing curiosity of the psychiatrist, and the
weighing appraisal of the butcher. Kennon's thoughts about Alexander's
youth vanished that instant. Those eyes belonged to a leader on the
a smothering wave. Grimly he fought it down, knowing it was a sign of
straight lines in his face into friendly curves. "Business, Dr. Kennon,
picture your world as an ironclad society crystallized by age and custom
there must be an atavistic streak in you--a throwback to your
I've never thought about it. It merely seemed to me that an undeveloped
figuring that you can get along on the minimum physical effort required
see if you'd care to work for me." He picked a contract form from one of
the piles of paper on his desk and handed it to Kennon. "This is one
of our standard work contracts. Take it back to your hotel and check it
settled--the sooner the better. Sit down, young man and read. You can
rouse me when you're finished." He turned his attention to the papers on
his desk and within seconds was completely oblivious of Kennon, his face
Alexander's hands to be added to the pile at the opposite end of the
desk. The man would do better, he thought, if he would have his staff
transcribe the papers to microfilm that could be read through an
interval-timed scanner. He might suggest that later. As for now, he
shrugged and seated himself in the chair beside the desk. The quiet was
broken only by the rustle of paper as the two rapt-faced men turned page
the necessary mental gymnastics to orient his time sense. Alexander, he
noticed, was still engrossed, sunk in his autohypnotic trance. Kennon
waited until he had finished the legal folder which he was reading and
gyrations Kennon had performed a few minutes before. His eyes focused
legalistics I've ever seen," Kennon said bluntly. "If that's the best
to get a job. No wonder you're having trouble getting professional help.
If your contracts are all like that it's' a wonder anyone works for
"It's a useful ace in the hole. Besides, you have had three other job
offers--all of which are good even though they don't pay fifteen Ems a
the unfit in one operation. A man who would sign a thing like that
has no place in my organization." Alexander chuckled at Kennon's blank
all directed toward the same goal. Here we aren't so civilized. We
depend more on personal judgment." He took another contract from one of
the drawers of his desk. "Take a look at this. I think you'll be more
feet, smiled at Alexander, and turned to the door. "Don't bother to call
figure you should have some rights. Certainly you have the right to
protect your interests. But that Article Twelve is a direct violation of
everything a human being should hold sacred besides being a violation
of the Peeper Laws. I'd never sign a contract that didn't carry a full
to mnemonic erasure of matters pertaining to your business once my
contract's completed and I leave your employment. But until then there
will be no conditioning, no erasures, no taps, no snoopers, and no
checkups other than the regular periodic psychans. I'll consult with you
on vacation time and will arrange it to suit your convenience. I'll even
agree to emergency recall, but that's the limit." Kennon's voice was
a button on his desk. "Prepare a standard 2-A contract for Dr.
Jac Kennon's signature. And attach two riders, a full P-P-yes, no
exceptions--and a security-leak contingency, Form 287-C. Yes--that's
right--that one. And strike out all provisions of Article Twelve which
conflict with the Peeper Laws. Yes. Now--and finish it as soon as you
can." He touched another button. "Well, that's that," he said. "I hope
from you would be relatively unimportant beside the fact that you would
be unhappy about them later. What little I could have won here, I'd lose
at the entrepreneur. Alexander couldn't be as easy as he seemed.
Objectivity and dispassionate weighing and balancing were nice traits
and very helpful ones, but in the bear pit of galactic business they
wouldn't keep their owner alive for five minutes. The interworld trade
sharks would have skinned him long ago and divided the stripped carcass
so--which made Alexander a different breed of cat entirely. Still, his
surface was perfect--polished and impenetrable as a duralloy turret on
one of the latest Brotherhood battleships. Kennon regretted he wasn't a
rider," Alexander chuckled. "However, there's no harm telling you. There
makes you a good risk so far as your ethics are concerned. In addition
you're the product of one of the finest educational systems in the
galaxy-and you have proven your intelligence to my satisfaction. You
also showed me that you weren't a spineless 'yes man.' And finally, you
have a spirit of adventure. Not one in a million of your people would do
what you have done. What more could an entrepreneur ask of a prospective
Enterprises as attractive as did your predecessor Dr. Williamson. He was
grandfather was essentially conservative. He liked older men, and Old
Doc was one of his choices--a good one, too. He was worth every credit
have no intention of staying as long as he did. I want to build a clinic
the contracts." He smiled at the trim secretary who entered the room
desk--except for your copy, of course." Alexander scrawled his signature
on the bottom of each contract. "Don't disturb me. I'll be in contact
with you. Leave your whereabouts with your hotel." He turned to the
papers in front of him, and then looked up for the last time. "Just one
more thing," he said. "You impress me as a cautious man. It would be
just as well if you carried your caution with you when you leave this
as he looked down at the yellow waters of the Xantline Sea flashing to
the rear of the airboat at a steady thousand kilometers per hour as they
sped westward in the middle traffic level. The water, some ten thousand
meters below, had been completely empty for hours as the craft hurtled
with a wry smile. "Besides, I wanted to get away from the Albertsville
nothing important. There are plenty of females where we are going and
I need you on Flora--not in Albertsville. Besides I can get you there
in the southern hemisphere. The northern hemisphere is practically
all water. Except for Flora and the Otpens there isn't a land area for
nearly three thousand kilometers in any direction, and since the company
owns Flora and the surrounding island groups there's no reason for
shipping to come there. We have our own supply vessels, a Discovery
Charter, and a desire for privacy.--Ah! It won't be long now. There's
the Otpens!" Alexander pointed at a smudge on the horizon that quickly
resolved into an irregular chain of tiny islets that slipped below them.
Kennon got a glimpse of gray concrete on one of the larger islands, a
smudge of green trees, and white beaches against which the yellow waters
automatic interceptors to protect our property. Look!--there's Flora."
of hills and the single gaunt volcano filling the eastward end of
the island and swept over a broad green valley dotted with fields
and orchards interspersed at intervals by red-roofed structures whose
fair-sized river. "That's the Styx," Alexander said. "Grandfather named
it. He was a classicist in his way--spent a lot of his time reading
books most people never heard of. Things like the Iliad and Gone with
the Wind. The mountains he called the Apennines, and that volcano's
Mount Olympus. The marshland to the north is called the Pontine
Marshes--our main road is the Camino Real." Alexander grinned. "There's
a lot of Earth on Flora. You'll find it in every name. Grandfather
was an Earthman and he used to get nostalgic for the homeworld.
Well--there's Alexandria coming up. We've just about reached the end of
hill in the center of an open plain. It was a Class II Fortalice built
on the efficient star-shaped plan of half a millennium ago--an ugly
spiky pile of durilium, squat and massive with defensive shields and
weapons which could still withstand hours of assault by the most modern
and Grandfather had a synthesizer and tapes for a Fortalice in his
ship. So he built it. It serves the dual purpose of base and house. It's
swift rush that left Kennon gasping--feeling that his stomach was still
floating above him in the middle level. He never had become accustomed
to an arbutus landing characteristics. Spacers were slower and steadier.
The ship landed gently on a pitted concrete slab near the massive
radiation shields of the barricaded entranceway to the fortress.
Projectors in polished dually turrets swivelled to point their ugly
noses at them. It gave Kennon a queasy feeling. He never liked to trust
his future to automatic machinery. If the analyzers failed to decode the
ship's I.D. properly, Kennon, Alexander, the ship, and a fair slice of
surrounding territory would become an incandescent mass of dissociated
projectors have been mounted nearly four hundred years and they're still
But we keep them in operating condition. You never can tell when they'll
opened the cabin door letting in a blast of heat and a flood of yellow
enough inside. Besides, you'll get used to this quickly enough--and
the nights are wonderful. The evening rains cool things off. Well--come
along." He began walking toward the arched entrance to the great
building some hundred meters away. Kennon followed looking around
curiously. So this was to be his home for the next five years? It didn't
look particularly inviting. There was a forbidding air about the place
came from its shadow--the first life Kennon had seen since they
descended from the ship. In this furnace heat even the air was quiet.
Two women came out of the darkness, moving with quiet graceful steps
across the blistering hot concrete. They were naked except for a
loincloth, halter, and sandals and so nearly identical in form and
feature that Kennon took them to be twins. Their skins were burned a
household or what his servants wore or didn't wear. Santos was a planet
of nudists, and certainly this hot sun was fully as brilliant as the one
which warmed that tropical planet In fact, he could see some virtue in
look at them and noticed with surprise that they weren't human. The long
tails curled below their spinal bases were adequate denials of human
stranger sees a Lani for the first time. Well--now you've seen some of
in our studies--and from their appearance they'd qualify as humans
inundated. Less than a quarter of a million years ago there was over a
hundred times the land area in this region than exists today. Then the
ocean rose. Now all that's left is the mid continent plateau and a few
mountain tops. You noted, I suppose, that this is mature topography
except for that range of hills to the east. The whole land area at the
time of flooding was virtually a peneplain. A rise of a few hundred feet
those conditions. A peneplain topography argues permanence for hundreds
primitive culture they were unable to reach the other land masses,"
Alexander shrugged. "At any rate they never established themselves
better than four hundred years ago. He picked this area because it all
could be comfortably included in Discovery Rights. It wasn't until years
subcontinent on Earth," he explained. "Its ecology, however, was
exceedingly primitive when compared with the rest of the planet. Flora's
on the contrary, was--and is--exceedingly advanced when compared with
operator in this sector of the galaxy. For practical purposes I own an
independent nation. There's about a thousand humans here, and nearly six
thousand Lani. We're increasing the Lani now, since we found they have
commercial possibilities. Up to thirty years ago we merely used them for
purposes, his employer was a slave trader--or would have been if the
natives were human. As it was, the analogy was so close that it wasn't
would have done credit to an exploration ship, and emerged dressed in
tunics and sandals that were far more appropriate and comfortable in
from which they had emerged. "He was a hound for sanitation and he
infected us with the habit." He turned and led the way down an arched
a gem of exquisite beauty. The parquet floor was inlaid with rare
hardwoods from a hundred different worlds. Parthian marble veneer
covered with lacy Van tapestries from Santos formed the walls. Delicate
ceramics, sculpture, and bronzes reflected the art of a score of
different civilizations. A circular pool, festooned with lacelike
Halsite ferns, stood in the center of the room, surrounding a polished
black granite pedestal on which stood an exquisite bronze of four Lani
females industriously and eternally pouring golden water from vases held
"I run Outworld, and own fifty per cent of it. The Family owns the other
fifty. There are eight of them--the finest collection of parasites
in the entire galaxy. At the moment they can't block me since I also
control my cousin Douglas's shares. But when Douglas comes of age they
will be troublesome. Therefore I defer to them. I don't want to build a
united opposition. Usually I can get one or more of them to vote with
me on critical deals, but I always have to pay for their support."
Alexander's voice was bitter as he touched the dilate button on the iris
door beside him. "You'll have to meet them tonight. There's five of them
Alexander's voice was grim. "Mother, Cousin Anne, Douglas, and Eloise
like to play lord of the manor. Cousin Harold doesn't care--for which
sitting on the couch opposite the door leaped to her feet, her mouth
opening in an O of surprise. Her soft snow-white hair, creamy skin, and
bright china blue eyes were a startling contrast to her black loincloth
need someone here with a little sense. Like I was telling you, the
Family'd"--he stopped abruptly and turned back to the Lani. "Your name
for six months and he'd disrupt the entire operation. The nerve of that
young pup--requisitioning an experimental type for household labor. Just
silent as Alexander crossed the room to the two doors flanking the
couch on which the Lani had sat. He opened the left-hand one revealing a
modern grav-shaft that carried them swiftly to the uppermost level. They
walked down a short corridor and stopped before another door. It opened
into a suite furnished with stark functional simplicity. It fitted the
entrepreneur's outward personality so exactly that Kennon had no doubt
Family will probably put you through the meat grinder, but remember that
and a plump pink-skinned Lani entered. She was considerably older
than the silver-haired one he had seen earlier, and her round face was
Douglas has been impossible. He's been culling the staff and replacing
them with empty-headed fillies whose only claim to usefulness is that
have the same powers. Goldie's the head housekeeper," Alexander added.
said. "Have a couple of porters take Dr. Kennon's things to Old Doc's
house. Find Man Douglas and tell him I want to see him at once. Tell the
Family that I've arrived and will see them in the Main Lounge at eight
trustworthy, intelligent. She's been running Alexandria for the past ten
them." Alexander's face darkened at an unpleasant memory. "So we don't
try any more," he said. "There are too many differences." He stretched.
"I'd tell you more about them but it'll be better to hear it from Evald
Blalok. He's our superintendent. Steve Jordan can tell you a lot, too.
He runs the Lani Division. But right now let's wait for Cousin Douglas.
The pup will take his time about coming--but he'll do it in the end.
and as such you hold an authority second only to Blalok and myself. You
and Blalok are my hands, ears, and eyes on Flora. You are responsible
to me--and to me alone. While I defer at times to the desires of
the Family, I do not have to. I run Outworld Enterprises and all the
extensions of that organization. I possess control--and the Family knows
it. My men are respected and furthermore they know everything that goes
on." He smiled icily. "In a way it's quite a healthy situation. It
keeps my relatives under control. Somehow they dislike being disciplined
before outsiders. Now think no more about it." Alexander stood up and
walked over to one of the windows opening onto the broad roof gardens,
things are in a state of nature. It's only when man interjects himself
onto a scene that things get complicated. Take Flora for instance.
Before Grandfather came here, it must have been a pleasant place with
the simple natives happy in their paradise. But that's all changed
now. We have taken over--and they, like other lesser creatures on other
worlds, have been bent to our will and uses. I could pity them, but
of the throat when he first saw a Varl on Santos. The Varl had been the
dominant life form there until men had come. Now they were just another
animal added to humanity's growing list of pets and livestock. The
little Varl with their soft-furred bodies and clever six-fingered hands
made excellent pets and precision workmen. The products of those clever
hands, the tiny instruments, the delicate microminiaturized control
circuits, the incredibly fine lacework and tapestries, formed the bulk
intelligence. But the Varl weren't human and there lay their tragedy.
Two thousand years of human domination had left them completely
dependent on their conquerors. They were merely intelligent animals--and
that was all they would ever be until the human race changed its
cultural pattern or was overthrown. The one alternative was as unlikely
as the other. Humanity had met some fierce competitors, but none with
its explosive acquisitive nature, and none with its drive to conquer,
fierceness and the greed of men. But unlike most others, the Varl were
be a threat. Not only were they essentially gentle and noncombative, but
their delicate bodies could not stand the strains of spaceflight.
They were trapped on their world. Why should they be forced into so
subordinate a role?--Why was humanity so jealous of its dominance
that no other species could exist except by sufferance? Why after five
thousand years of exploration, invasion, and colonization did the human
race still consider the galaxy as its oyster, and themselves uniquely
qualified to hold the knife? He hadn't thought this way since he had
given the Varl to his girl friend of the moment, and had blasted off for
Beta. Now the questions returned to haunt him. As a Betan, the haunting
was even more acute, since Beta had a related problem that was already
entered pushing a service cart ahead of her. The two men ate silently,
each busy with his own thoughts. And behind the view wall of Alexander's
apartment Kardon's brilliant yellow sun sank slowly toward the horizon,
filling the sky with flaming colors of red and gold, rimmed by the blues
and purples of approaching night. The sunset was gaudy and blatant,
Kennon thought with mild distaste, unlike the restful day-end displays
eyes set in folds of fat above a button nose and a loose-lipped sensual
mouth. There was an odd expression of defiance overlaid with fear on his
pudgy features. Looking at him, Kennon was reminded of a frightened dog,
him into the room. Every line of their bodies was perfection that spoke
volumes about generations of breeding for physical elegance. They moved
with a co-ordinated grace that made Douglas look even more clumsy by
contrast. And they were identical, twin cream-and-gold works of art.
They were completely nude--and Kennon for the first time in his life
fully appreciated the beauty of an unclad female. To cover them would
be sacrilege, and ornaments would only detract from their exquisite
psychic bathhouse attendant had poured ice water down his spine. For he
had seen that look before, that liquid introspective look in the velvet
eyes of cattle. He shivered. For a moment he had been thinking of them
as human. And somehow the lack of that indefinable some thing called
humanity robbed them of much of their glamour. They were still
suddenly. "They're a special case, a very special case." He glared at
his cousin. "Damn your impudence," he said without beat. "I sent for
reach my majority in five years. I can vote my shares then--and then
I'll fix you. You won't be so high and mighty then, Mr. Big. I'll throw
said. "They wouldn't have anyone else but me handle the finances. They
love money too much. And until you get your inheritance remember one
with ironic emphasis. "I hope he cuts you off from the Lani. He'll have
will, you'll own nothing except an allowance until you reach legal age.
And that brings me to the reason I brought you here. Just when did you
gain the right to reorganize the household staff? Just when did you get
bitterly. "You'll make me do it. You always do. Do you want me to beg,
he watched Alexander's granite face. "You don't mean that," he said
your last escapade. You'll be happy out there. You can play tin god all
you like. Master of life and death on a two-acre island. No one will
mind. You can also go to work. No one will mind that, either. And
Mullins won't mind as long as you leave the troops alone. Now get out of
deflated and he seemed more frightened than before. Obviously the Otpens
doesn't like Douglas. Can't say that I blame him. Douglas is a
thoroughly unpleasant specimen, and incidentally quite typical of the
rest of the Family." Alexander sighed and spread his hands in a gesture
that combined disgust and resignation. "Sometimes I wonder why I have
sickened him. There were several ways to produce that expression, all of
them unpleasant. Hypnoconditioning, the Quiet Treatment, brainburning,
transorbital leukotomy, lobectomy--all of the products of that diseased
period of humanity's thinking when men tampered with the brains of other
men in an effort to cure psychic states. Psychiatry had passed that
period, at least on the civilized worlds, where even animal experiments
that way as a birthday present for Douglas. He was getting senile. He
died a year later. You'd think a man would be ashamed to keep things
like that around--but not Douglas. He likes them." Alexander's voice was
tinged with contempt. "He knows they disgust me--so he parades them in.
been no dockings, no mutilations. I can't see treating a helpless animal
cruelty and waste--particularly when it's dangerous. Docked Lani are the
height of stupidity. Just because someone wants a pet that is an exact
duplicate of a human being is no reason to risk a court action. Those
Lani, and a few others whose tails have been docked, could be a legal
Alexander had been talking physical. Naturally they would be dangerous
property. Anyone attempting to sell a docked Lani would probably be
system?" Alexander asked. "Even the small ones set you back four or five
thousand, and a first-class action like a Humanity Trial could cost
over a million. Grandfather found that out. Sure, there are differences
between Lani and humans, but a smart lawyer can make them seem trivial
until the final test and that would drag on for nearly two years until
all the requirements were satisfied--and by that time the unfavorable
publicity would drop sales to zero. The Family would be on my neck for
mutation, but so far as we know it hasn't happened in human history. As
a result, the tail serves as a trade-mark--something that can be easily
recognized by anyone. So we sell them intact." Alexander crossed his
human--at first. They learn better, but adjustment is always a strain.
They keep confusing external appearances with the true article. But
remember this--Lani are not human. They're animals. And on this island
they're treated as what they are--no more, no less. They are a part
of our economics and are bred, fed, and managed according to sound
livestock principles. Despite some of the things you may see here in
Alexandria, don't forget that. You are a veterinarian. Your job is to
handle disease problems in animals. Lani are animals. Therefore you will
be doing your job. I was disappointed in your reaction when you first
saw them, but I suppose it was natural. At any rate this should clear
crystal, floored with thick carpets, and hung with rich drapes, had
something of the appearance of a Sarkian harem. Although there were only
five of the Alexander family present, there were at least twenty
Lani whose costumes ranged from the black G string and halter of the
household staff to the utter nudity of Douglas's playthings. They were
with his sulky expression, an older man in his late nineties who looked
like Douglas's elder brother, two mature women who could be any age from
fifty to three hundred, and a girl. She might have been thirty--perhaps
younger, perhaps older, a lean feminine edition of Alexander, with the
same intriguing face and veiled predatory look. There was a hardness
about her that was absent in the others. Kennon had the feeling that
She's as deadly as a puff adder and she collects men. The other man is
Douglas's father, Henry. The plump redhead beside him is his wife, Anne.
The other woman is my mother, Clara, even though Eloise and I don't look
said into the hush that followed their entrance. The introductions that
followed were in proper form, and Kennon was beginning to feel more at
ease until Eloise sent one of her Lani with a summons. He looked around
for Alexander, but the entrepreneur was the center of a three-cornered
argument, hemmed in by Douglas, Henry, and Anne. Henry's voice was
raised in bitter protest that Alexander was exceeding his authority. He
crossed to the table and examined it, selecting a cluster of odd purple
fruit which looked more interesting than it tasted. When he had finished
employees," she said coldly. Her dark eyes, oddly like her brother's,
employee," he said bluntly. "I was hired by your brother, and there's
a full peeper rider on my contract." His eyes traveled slowly over her
carefully arranged hair, her make-up, her jewelry at throat and
arms, her painted finger- and toenails, and then across the slim
small-breasted lines of her body half revealed under her thin
parasite camp. Six months of hard labor would do you no end of good.
imperturbably. "After all, the superficial attributes of good breeding
Despite her wealth Eloise was no different from the port-of-call girls.
If anything, she was worse since she had enough money to implement her
desires. They were merely in the trade for business reasons. No--Eloise
would be something to steer clear of. Alexander was right. She was a
mantrap. He stood up and bowed Betan fashion. "I see your brother is
free now. He wants to brief me on my duties here. We were discussing it
a poor employee if I delayed him." He grinned knowingly at her and she
left a bottle or two, although I suspect the old sinner hung on until
wryly. "At that, though, you have a point." The two men slipped quietly
from the room. Apparently none of the Family was conscious of their
departure except Eloise, who watched them leave with an enigmatic
winding path that led to the cluster of buildings in the valley below.
It was a beautiful night, calm and clear with the stars shining down
from the dark vault of the heavens. The constellations were strange, and
Kennon missed the moons. Beta had three, two of which were always in the
mistily into the still air. Kennon sniffed the odor of soil and growing
vegetation, clean pleasant odors in contrast to what he had left. In the
distance a bird called sleepily from one of the fortress turrets and was
answered by some creature Kennon couldn't identify. A murmur of blended
sound came from the valley below, punctuated by high-pitched laughter.
Someone was singing, or perhaps chanting would be a better description.
The melody was strange and the words unrecognizable. The thin whine
of an atomotor in the fortress's generating plant slowly built up to a
It's almost as though we shut those people out of existence by merely
mock comfort. "Douglas is on the Otpens for a year, and the others are
Actually he's more qualified than I. He knows everything worth knowing
about this place. We're going past his house in a minute--want to stop
business." Alexander swung sharply to the left and climbed a short
flight of stairs that led to the nearest house. Lights flared on the
deep porch, and the old-fashioned iris door dilated to frame the black
a solid quiet man with a craggy face and the deep-set eyes of a Mystic.
His skin had the typical thickness and pore prominence of the dwellers
on that foggy world from which he came. But unlike the natives of Myst,
his skin was burned a dark brown by Kardon's sun. He seemed out of place
on this tropic world, but Kennon reflected wryly that there was probably
said as he ushered them into the house. A tall black-haired man rose as
died this morning, and there's three more that look pretty bad,
jaundice, no appetite, complaining of muscular pains. Same symptoms as
took the others. The one this morning makes the fourth this month, and
of amusement on his face. "There's nothing like getting into things
and a sleepy-eyed Lani blinked at them in the sudden glare. She looked
blankly at Kennon and then brightened as she saw Jordan. "What's the
I'll get the staff. I'll be back in a moment." She stepped quickly over
to the switchboard beside the door and punched five buttons. Four more
here for better than four centuries, and we're still doing all right.
Over forty generations so far, and from the looks of things we can go on
everything. All I know is that we get results. Old Doc knew how it was
belaboring the point. He turned to the staff. Five of them were the
same big-boned heavy-framed type that apparently did most of the
manual labor. The sixth, the late arrival, was an elegant creature, a
bronze-skinned, green-eyed minx with an elfin face half hidden under a
wavy mass of red-brown hair. Unlike the others, she had been docked--and
in contrast to their heavy eyes and sleep-puffed features she was alert
strangeness was broken. He felt oddly at ease. "Which of you are on
turned to face Kennon. "Now, Doctor--would you like to see your office?
Old Doc left a fine collection of notes on Lani anatomy and perhaps you
the Lani led the way to a door which opened into a good-sized office,
liberally covered with bookshelves. An old-fashioned plastic desk, some
office cybernetics, a battered voicewriter, and a few chairs completed
the furnishings. The redhead placed several large folio volumes in front
of him and stepped back from the desk as he leafed rapidly through
the color plates. It was an excellent atlas. Dr. Williamson had been a
Lani viscera, Kennon looked up at the redhead. She was still standing
the pitiless light of the fluorescents. She had been hardly more than a
child. Kennon felt a twinge of pity--so young--so young to die. And as
an offer to study human medicine because of his aversion to dissecting
cadavers. The sarcoplastic models were all right, but when it came to
flesh, Kennon didn't have the stomach for it. And now, the sight of the
dead humanoid brought back the same cold sweat and gut-wrenching nausea
external examination. Icterus and a swollen abdomen--the rest was
essentially normal. And he knew with cold certainty that he could not
lay a scalpel edge upon that cold flesh. It was too human, too like his
pathologist did his own dissection. He examined. And that he could do.
It was the tactile, not the visual sensations that upset him. He nodded.
An excellent prosectress, Kennon thought. Kennon pointed at the swollen
liver and the Lani deftly severed its attachments and laid the organ
out for inspection. The cause of death was obvious. The youngster had
succumbed to a massive liver-fluke infestation. It was the worst he
had ever seen. The bile ducts were thick, calcified and choked with
differences, the lesions were identical. He removed a few of the flukes
qualities of a crime hunt. Now he must act to prevent further murders,
to reconstruct the crime, to find the modus operandi, to track the fluke
to be identified and its sensitivity to therapy determined. Studies
would have to be made on its life cycle, and the means by which it
gained entrance to its host. It wouldn't be simple, because this
trematode was probably Hepatodirus hominis, and it was tricky. It
the parasitology text. No matter how much Hepatodirus changed its life
cycle, it could not change its adult form. The arrangements of the
suckers and genital structures were typical. Old Doc's library on
parasites was too inadequate for more than diagnosis. He would have to
wait for his own books to be uncrated before he could do more than apply
symptomatic treatment. He sighed and rose slowly to his feet. Tomorrow
beautiful. Old Doc was a fat, gray old man." She paused and eyed Kennon
appraisingly with a look on her pointed face that was the virtual twin
of Eloise's. "I think I'll like working for you if you're as nice as you
at him, head cocked sideways. "I guess I have a lot to learn about you.
You're much different from Old Doc. He didn't snap at me." She paused
post-mortem be reported promptly and that a record of the Lani concerned
be posted in the death book together with all pertinent autopsy data.
Man Blalok is very fussy about proper records." She drew one of the
chairs to a spot beside the desk and sat down, crossed her long legs,
the name of Sir Arthur Fleming could he dictate a coldly precise report
with a naked redhead sitting beside him? "Look," he said. "I won't need
you. I can operate a voicewriter. You can pick up the material later and
been more brutal than necessary. But the girl--no, the Lani--was
disconcerting. He felt ashamed of himself. He had behaved like a
primitive rather than a member of one of the oldest human civilizations
in the galaxy. He wouldn't bark at a dog that way. He shook his head.
Probably he was tired. Certainly he was irritable, and unclad females
virtually indistinguishable from human weren't the most soothing objects
First Eloise, and then this! Confound it! He was surrounded! He felt
trapped. And it wasn't because he'd been away from women too long. A
week was hardly that. He grinned as he recalled the blonde from Thule
aboard the starship. Now there was a woman, even though her ears were
pointed and her arms were too long. She didn't pressure a man. She let
being pursued--and his male ego had revolted. He shrugged and turned
his attention to the autopsy report, but it was hopeless. He
couldn't concentrate. He jotted a few notes and dropped them on the
desk--tomorrow would be time enough. What he needed now was a stiff
what was causing the trouble. Blalok scowled. "We've never had flukes
months of his life. I wouldn't doubt that he let his assistants do most
Blalok waved a friendly good night and left the lights on long enough
symphony in the stereo, his eyes half closed, an expression of peace
on his face. An elderly Lani stood beside him. It was a comfortable
Alexander's eyes snapped open. "Oh--it's you," he said. "Don't worry,
Alexander chuckled. "The grapevine is amazingly efficient. Well--what's
clean it up as quickly as possible. I'm pretty sure of the fluke, and
liked humans better. It's adapted to a hundred different planetary
environments, and it keeps spreading. It's a real cutie--almost
We might as well have a nightcap--then I'll go back to the house and
listen to Henry and Anne's screams about poor mistreated Douglas, and
obnoxiously, but enough to change his character. Intoxicated, he was a
friendlier person. If there was any truth in the ancient cliche
about alcohol bringing out a man's true character, then Alexander was
rooms, two baths, a freshener, and three Lani to keep the place running.
don't think I'm going to have an easy time. Tomorrow I'm going to be up
afford to do it. Oh--not the money, but it might be admitting that the
Lani might be human. And we've gone to a great deal of trouble to prove
they're not." He shifted uncomfortably in his chair. "There's a story
Grandfather was a clever man. After he had secured this island he
became worried about the surviving Lani. He didn't want to be accused
of genocide, since the Lani were so human in appearance. So he had his
medical officer make a few autopsies. The M.D. reported that while there
court was sitting in Halsey and the hearing was private. Even so, it
leaked and Grandfather was highly unpopular for a time until the lab
reports came in. It cost him over eight hundred Ems and nearly two
years' time to finish the case, but when it was over the Lani were
and three court-appointed M.O.'s went through them with microscopes.
They didn't miss a thing. Their reports are so detailed that they're
classics of their kind. They're almost required reading for anyone
who wants to learn Lani structure and function. The court rendered
an interim decision that the Lani were nonhuman, and armed with this,
Grandfather prepared the final tests which were run by a team of
court-appointed medics and biologists, who made in vitro and live tests
on a number of Lani female prisoners. The tests ran for over two years
and were totally negative. So the Alexander family acquired Flora and
the Otpens, and a legal status." Alexander stood up. "Well--that's a
capsule summary. The records are in the library if you'd care to check
enough. For a moment Kennon debated whether he should see him home--and
then decided against it. If Alexander needed help he'd have asked for
it. As it was, it was better to leave things alone. Certainly he didn't
know Alexander well enough to act as a guardian. He turned back to the
living area. The stereo was playing something soft and nostalgic as
Kennon sank into the chair Alexander had vacated. He let his body relax.
It had been as full a day as he had ever spent filled with changes
so abrupt that they were exhausting. He felt confused. There were no
precedents he could apply. Neither his studies nor his travels had
intelligent, upright, bipedal mammals whose morphology was so close to
man's that it had taken the ultimate test to settle their status. And
being a Betan, Kennon was suspicious of the accuracy of that ultimate
pervaded mankind's expanding empire was its product. From almost the
beginning of mankind's leap to the stars it had been recognized that men
must help each other or perish. The spirit of co-operation against the
common enmity of alien worlds and cultures transcended the old petty
developed its muscles in a thousand battles on a thousand hostile
worlds. And ultimately it evolved into the only form of central
authority that men would accept. Yet basically it was not a government.
It was an attitude of mind. Men accepted its decisions as they would
enforce them. After all, it didn't need to. It also arbitrated disputes,
admitted new worlds to membership, and organized concerted human effort
against dangerous enemies. And that was all. Yet in its sphere the
Brotherhood--membership in the human race. No matter how decadent or
primitive a population might be, if it was human it was automatically
eligible for Brotherhood--a free and equal partner in the society of
of humanity, although individuals might have done so. A docked Lani, for
instance, would probably pass unquestioned as a human, but the Lani race
would not. In consequence they and their world were fair prey, and had
forms were obviously alien. But there were a few--like the Lani--where
similarities were so close that it was impossible to determine their
status on the basis of morphology alone. And so the Humanity Test had
like can interbreed with like. Tests conducted on every inhabited world
in the Brotherhood had proven this conclusively. Whatever changes had
taken place in the somatic characteristics of mankind since the Exodus,
they had not altered the compatibility of human germ plasm. Man could
interbreed with man--aliens could not. The test was simple. The results
were observable. And what was more important, everyone could understand
qualifying phrases were those of the scientist, that strange breed that
refuses to accept anything as an established fact until it is proven
beyond a shadow of a doubt. After all, the human race had been
spaceborne for only six thousand years--scarcely time for any real
differences to develop. But physical changes had already appeared--and
it would only be a question of time before these would probably be
followed by genetic changes. And in some groups the changes might be
the rest of humanity. Already the radiations of Beta's variant-G sun had
produced changes in the population. Little things like tougher
epidermis and depilation of body hair--little things that held alarming
implications to Beta's scientists, and to Beta's people. Not too many
generations hence a Betan outside his home system would be a rarity,
and in a few millennia the Betan system itself would be a closed enclave
peopled by humans who had deviated too far from the basic stock to
there was no assurance that this would happen. And mankind had a history
come to the same conclusion. Possibly there were. And possibly there
were worlds where marked deviations had occurred. There wasn't a year
that passed that didn't bring some new human world into the Brotherhood,
and many of these had developed from that cultural explosion during the
First Millennium known as the Exodus, where small groups of colonists in
inadequate ships set out for unannounced goals to homestead new worlds
for man. Some of these survived, and many were being discovered even
at this late date. But so far none had any difficulty in proving their
groups, which probably explained the extreme care the Brotherhood
courts had taken with their case. But they had failed the test, and
were declared animals. Yet it was possible that they had mutated beyond
genetic compatibility. If they had, and if it were proved, here was a
test case that could rock the galaxy--that could shake the Brotherhood
to its very foundations--that could force a re-evaluation of the
day on the job, dreaming how he could ruin his employer, shake the
foundation of human civilization, and force ten thousand billion humans
to change their comfortable habit patterns and their belief in the
unchangeable sameness of men. He was, he reflected wryly, an incurable
slumber. He opened one eye and looked at the room. For a moment the
strange surroundings bothered him, then memory took over. He stirred
the voice went on. "I'm sorry, sir, but you should get up." The voice
protest and looked at his tormentor. A gasp of dismay left his lips,
for standing beside the bed, a half smile on her pointed face, was
sleep by a naked humanoid who looked too human for comfort. "What are
his tongue. She probably wouldn't understand. But there was one thing
open door in the side wall. "I've been there ever since you dismissed me
Santosians do flicked through his mind. Well, perhaps he would in
time--but not yet. The habits of a lifetime couldn't be overturned
overnight. "Now you have awakened me," he said, "perhaps you'll get out
feel like the gods. No one to serve you. No one to even scrub your
take responsibility for intelligent life other than your own race.
Until you face up to your responsibilities you are merely a member of a
her, and what he was about to say remained unspoken. "Out of the mouths
household Lani wear cloth." She frowned, two vertical furrows dividing
her dark brows. "I've never understood why inhouse Lani have to be
disfigured that way, but I suppose there's some reason for it. Men
remark about civilization wasn't the product of a conditioned mind. But
why was he worrying about her attitudes? They weren't important--she
wasn't even human. He shook his head. That was a sophistry. The fact
that she wasn't human had nothing to do with the importance of her
attitude. "I suppose there is a reason," he agreed. "But I don't know
men are bothered at first by the fact that we Lani are naked, but they
adjust quickly. So will you." She smiled as she turned away. "You see,"
she added over her shoulder as she left the room, "we're not human.
composed of equal parts of relief and exasperation as he slipped out of
bed and began to dress. He'd forgo the shower this morning. He had no
desire for Copper to appear and offer to scrub his back. In his present
state of mind he couldn't take it. Possibly he'd get used to it in time.
"He said that he'd be right over to pick you up. He wants to show you
arms into the sleeves of his tunic and closed the seam tabs. "I have
the feeling that I'm going to wake up any minute." He looked at his
reflection in the dresser mirror, and his reflection looked worriedly
back. "This whole thing has an air of plausible unreality: the
advertisement, the contract, this impossible island that raises
humanoids as part of the livestock." He shrugged and his mirrored image
shrugged back. "But it's real, all right. No dream could possibly be
this detailed. I wonder how I'm going to take it for the next five
years? Probably not too well," he mused silently. "Already I'm talking
to myself. Without even trying, that Lani Copper can make me feel like a
backward world females were as close to slaves as the Brotherhood would
permit; raised from birth under an iron regimen designed to produce
complaisant mates for the dominant males. Probably that was the reason
Sark was so backward. The men, having achieved domestic tranquillity,
had no desire to do anything that would disturb the status quo. And
since no Sarkian woman under any conceivable circumstances would annoy
her lordly master with demands to produce better mousetraps, household
gadgetry, and more money, the technological development of Sark had come
they were, and while passing judgment was still a major human pursuit,
no native of one world had a right to force his customs down the
unwilling throat of another. It would be better to accept his present
situation and live with it rather than trying to impose his Betan
conception of morality upon Lani that neither understood nor appreciated
it. His business was to treat and prevent animal disease. What happened
to the animals before infection or after recovery was none of his
vehicle that squatted with an air of unpolished efficiency on the
graveled drive behind his house. He smiled a quick greeting as Kennon
approached. "It's about time you showed up," he said. "You'll have to
get into the habit of rising early on this place. We do most of our work
early in the morning and late in the afternoon. During the day it's too
hot to breathe, let alone work. Well, let's get going. There's still
jeep today," he said. "They aren't very pretty, but they get around." He
turned onto the surfaced road that ran down the hill toward the hospital
and the complex of red-roofed buildings clustered about it. "About those
hangouts, study his modus operandi, and learn how to make his victims
secure from his activities. Unless we do that, we can treat individuals
from now to infinity and all we'll have is more cases. We have to apply
modern criminology tactics--eliminate the source of crime--stop up the
night, and I saw nothing about trematodes, or anything that looked like
on Santos so far as we know. In fact, some people think that the Varl
bred it for a weapon to use against us before we conquered them. They
could have done it. Their biological science was of a high enough
him go because he was a nudist. It made a bad impression on the Lani.
The fatal cases usually don't show up before an area is pretty well
concentrated into groups. And so far there doesn't seem to be any
infestation outside of Hillside Station--except for two deaths in Lani
recently sent from there. If we quarantine those stations and work fast,
at the hospital. If there aren't we'll get them. We'll take the
sick ones back to the hospital area and push therapy and supportive
treatment. Now that we know the cause, we shouldn't have any more death
than a training center. Perhaps Old Doc was trained in outcall work, but
I'm not. I work from a hospital. The only things I do on outcalls are
diagnoses, vaccinations, and emergencies. The rest of the patients come
possible. The patients are of more concern than the personal comfort of
any straw boss or administrator. You're the administrator--you calm them
There simply won't be time to run all over the island dosing with
Trematox and taking temperatures, and while that sort of thing is
routine, it should be supervised. Besides, you'll see the advantages of
two Lani carrying bags which they loaded into the back of the jeep.
"I had to reorganize a little," Kennon apologized, "some things were
for fast transport. Most of the roads aren't so good." He engaged the
drive and the jeep began to move. "We'll go cross country," he said.
"Hillside's pretty far out--the farthest station since we abandoned
increased the power to the drive and set the machine on automatic.
"We'll get a pretty good cross-section of our operations on this trip,"
impressed. The size of this operation was beginning to sink in. It
hadn't looked so big from the substratosphere in Alexander's ship, but
down here close to the ground it was enormous. Fields of grain, wide
orchards, extensive gardens. Once they were forced to detour a huge
supply boat that rose heavily in front of them. Working in the fields
were dozens of brown-skinned Lani who paused to look up and wave as
the jeep sped by. Occasional clusters of farm buildings and the low
have a few who are descendants of the crew of the first Alexander, and
there's one old codger who was actually with him during the conquest.
Most of our stationmasters are family men. We feel that a wife and
children add to a man's stability--and incidentally keep him from
luxury-trade items. The big sale items are beef, pork, and mutton."
Blalok chuckled. "Did you think that the Lani were our principal
agriculture--is our main source of income. The Lani are valuable
principally to keep down the cost of overhead. Virtually all of them
work right here on the island. We don't sell more than a hundred a year
less than five per cent of our total. And those are surplus--too light
in space-train range. We can produce more cheaply than any competitor,
and we can undersell any competition, even full automation." Blalok
chuckled. "There are some things that a computer can't do as well as
a human being, and one of them is farm the foods on which humanity is
accustomed to feed. A man'll pay two credits for a steak. He could get a
Chlorella substitute for half a credit, but he'll still buy the steak
if he can afford it. Same thing goes for fruit, vegetables, grain, and
garden truck. Man's eating habits have only changed from necessity.
Those who can pay will still pay well for natural foods." Blalok
chuckled. "We've put quite a dent in the algae and synthetics operations
does us no harm. We keep enough for servants--and the others would be
inefficient for most farm work. So disposal by sale is a logical and
profitable way of culling. But now the Boss-man is being pressured into
breeding an export type. And this I don't like. It's too commercial.
fatheaded Brotherhood economists call our system economic slavery--and
I'll admit that it's pretty hard to crack out of a spherical trust.
But that doesn't mean that we have to stay where we are. Mystics aren't
owned by their entrepreneurs. Sure, it's a tough haul to beat the
boss, but it can be done. I did it, and others do it all the time. The
Lani have? Without us they can't even keep going as a race. They're
technological morons. They don't live long enough to understand modern
civilization. To turn those poor helpless humanoids out into human
society would be criminal. It's our duty to protect them even while
Boss-man the facts--but I can't get nerve enough to try. I've a good job
here--a wife and two kids--and I don't want to jeopardize my future."
Blalok glanced over the side. "Well, here we are," he said, and began
descending into the center of a spokelike mass of buildings radiating
replacement and export. It can turn out over a thousand a year at
full capacity. Of course we don't run at that rate, or Flora would be
overpopulated. But this is a big layout, like you said. It can maintain
for the past half hour," he said. "Your office said you were on your
way.--Good to see you, too, Doc. I've been going over the records with
hand. The gesture was as old as man, its ritualistic meaning lost in
compare origins later. Right now, you'd better come into the office.
setup two are used for breeding and the other ten for maturation. We
rotate the youngsters around the bay--a different bay each year until
they're age eleven. Then they're sorted according to type and sent out
for a year of further specialized training after which they go onto the
Nine, but Bay Ten has had all our losses except two that have occurred
migrate too far. We have him pinpointed unless--say how many training
the damage is a flatworm, a trematode called Hepatodirus hominis. As
I've told Blalok, it's a tricky thing. Like all trematodes it has a
three-stage life cycle, but unlike every other fluke, its life cycle is
not fixed to definite intermediate hosts. Depending upon where it is,
the fluke adapts. It still must pass through its life cycle, but its
intermediate host need not be one species of snail, fish, or copepod.
Any cold-blooded host will do. What you have here is a Kardonian variant
which has adapted to some particular intermediate host on this world.
Until now, its final host was either man or Varl. Now we have a third,
the Lani. And apparently they are the most susceptible of the three.
It never kills Varl. And humans, while they're more susceptible, only
occasionally succumb, but the Lani appear to be the most susceptible of
all. I've never seen an infestation like those Lani had. Their livers
were literally crawling with flukes." Kennon paused and looked at
technique is thousands of years old, but it's just as good today as it
and like I said, it adapts. Its intermediate host can be any one of a
subacute dosage to propagate it until the time is right for another
epizootic. We have to kill its intermediate host--or hosts if it has
more than one. That will keep it from growing and will ultimately
habits of the Lani. Then we check each individual Lani. Then we check
the life cycle of the parasite. Somewhere along the line if we're lucky
we're on an isolated land mass. That gives us an advantage. We should be
minimum--and I wouldn't care to guess at the maximum. However, I hope
the idea in your head that you're facing something here that can cripple
you--maybe abort your whole operation. You have a choice--interrupt now
or abort later. And half measures won't work. To eradicate this pest
of telling how far this spreads until the death losses occur. Our tests
for fluke infestation aren't that good. We have to work thoroughly and
carefully. We can't be butting heads over this--either we all co-operate
disease. Five months ago Old Doc and two Lani were ill. Four months ago
one of the two Lani was dead and Old Doc was too ill to be effective.
Three months ago Old Doc and the other Lani were dead, and before the
end of the month two more followed them. Two months ago six died, last
month eight, and so far this month you've lost four and you have over
two weeks to go. Up to now they've all been from here, but two this
month were at other stations. In six months if nothing is done, we'll
be having losses there unless we're lucky. And the losses will keep
on increasing. Apparently you don't know what it is to live with
graduates, Kennon reflected as he checked the monthly reports from the
Stations. Since the time he had laid down the law to Judson and Blalok,
he had had no trouble from the production staff. And for the past four
months there had been no further trouble with Hepatodirus. That unwanted
visitor had apparently been evicted. At that, they had been lucky. The
parasite had been concentrated at Hillside Station and had failed to
establish itself in the training area. The intermediate host, it had
turned out, was a small amphibian that was susceptible to commercial
insecticide. It had been no trouble to eradicate. Systemic treatment and
cooking of all food had cleaned up the infective cercaria and individual
infections, and after six months of intensive search, quarantine, and
investigation, Kennon was morally certain that the disease had been
that his ideas were right. The hospital was operating as a hospital
should, with a staff of twelve Lani kept busy checking the full wards.
Actually, it was working better than it should, since stationmasters all
over the island were now shipping in sick animals rather than treating
hundred and two days in our year, ten thirty-day months and two special
months to go. But how come the ten-month year? Most other planets have
sweat from his face. "What with this infernal heat and their eternal
and shrakes were almost as bad. You can't get away from soil saprophytes
no matter how clean you are. Under a pasture setup there's always
a chance of contamination. And that old cliche about an ounce of
prevention is truer of livestock raising than anything else I can think
mess, but Alexander thinks it's profitable. Someone's told him that
pound for pound chickens are the most efficient feed converters of all
the domestic animals. So we're getting a pilot plant: eggs, incubator,
and a knocked-down broiler battery so we can try the idea out.
The Boss-man is always hot on new ideas to increase efficiency and
production. The only trouble is that he fails to consider the work
coccidosis, leukosis, perosis, and Ochsner knows how many other-osises
and--itises. I was never too strong on fowl practice in school, and I'd
with feed-mill experience, and he's up to his ears with Hillside Station
slavery implications and got the Boss-man's okay to hold the line, why
herself some overmuscled Halsite who looked good to her--but she
couldn't crack his moral barrier." Blalok grinned. "I thought you'd be
dog's interested in a beefsteak. It's a good thing we had that fluke
problem or I'd have been chewed up and digested long ago. That woman
had ever spent, Kennon reflected. Between Eloise and the flukes, he had
nearly collapsed--and when it had come to the final showdown, he thought
for a while that he'd be looking for another job. But Alexander had been
more than passably understanding and had refused his sister's passionate
walked to the door. The parting shot missed its mark entirely as Kennon
looked at him with blank incomprehension. "You should have been a
Mystic," Blalok said. "A knowledge of the sacred books would do you no
himself, "but my education's been neglected somewhere along the line. I
don't get it." He shrugged and buzzed for Copper. The veterinary report
would have to be added to the pile already before him, and the Boss-man
fingers dancing over the stenotype. He had been here a full year--but
instead of becoming a familiar object, he had grown so gigantic that
he filled her world. And it wasn't merely because he was young and
it was a physical pain. Other Lani had told her about men and what they
could do. Even her old preceptress at Hillside Station had given her
some advice when Man Allworth had tattooed the tiny V on her thigh that
meant she had been selected for the veterinary staff. And when Old Doc
had brought her from the Training Station to the hospital and removed
her tail, she was certain that she was one of the lucky ones who would
unfulfilled longing that destroyed sleep and made food tasteless. Love
was supposed to be pleasant and exciting. She could remember every word
And soon no one will be able to tell you from a human. You will look
like our masters. You will share in their work. And there may be times
stranger to us now, known only to the few who serve our masters. It was
not always so. The Old Ones knew love before Man Alexander came. And
our young were the fruit of love rather than the product of our masters'
cunning. But you may know the flower even though you cannot bear its
fruit. You may enter that world of pleasure-pain the Old Ones knew, that
may treat you gently. He may show you love. Yet you never will be his
equal. Nor must you become too attached to him, for you are not human.
You are not his natural mate. You cannot bear his young. You cannot
possess it. For there lies heartache rather than happiness. And it is
a world of heartache, my little one, to long for something which you
It had been with her ever since Kennon had come into her life that
night a year ago. And it had grown until it had become gigantic. He
was kind--yes. He was harsh--occasionally. Yet he had shown her no more
affection than he would have shown a dog. Less--for he would have petted
the need was that of a builder for a tool. He liked her and sometimes
shared his problems and triumphs with her, and sometimes his defeats,
but he did not love. There had never been for her the bright fierce look
he had bent upon the Woman Eloise those times when she had come to him,
bronze skin, firm chin, soft lips and long straight nose, the
narrowed eyes, hooded beneath thick brows, scanning the papers in his
lean-tendoned hands. His nearness was an ache in her body--yet he was
once, and that touch had burned like hot iron. For hours she had felt
it. He looked up. Her heart choked her with its beating. She would die
for him if he would but once run his fingers over her tingling skin, and
One didn't need Sorovkin techniques to interpret what was in her mind.
And it would have been amusing if it weren't so sad. For what she
wanted, he couldn't give. Yet if she were human it would be easy. A
hundred generations of Betan moral code said "never," yet when he looked
at her their voices faded. He was a man--a member of the ruling race.
She was an animal--a beast--a humanoid--near human but not near enough.
To like her was easy--but to love her was impossible. It would be
bestiality. Yet his body, less discerning than his mind, responded to
not analyze. In a way it was poetry--the fierce, vaguely disquieting
poetry of the sensual Santosian bards--the lyrics that sung of the joys
of flesh. He had never really liked them, yet they filled him with a
vague longing, an odd uneasiness--just the sort that filled him now.
down." The banality amused him--sitting here thinking of Copper and
talking about coffee. Banality was at once the curse and the saving
grace of mankind. It kept men from the emotional peaks and valleys that
could destroy them. He chuckled shakily. The only alternative would be
to get rid of her--and he couldn't (or wouldn't?--the question intruded
this coffee was a man's drink. She had tried it once but the hot
bitterness scalded her mouth and flooded her body with its heat. And she
had felt so lightheaded. Not like herself at all. It wasn't a drink for
her. Perhaps--yet--she might find favor in his eyes. The hope was always
there within her--a hope that was at once fear and prayer. And if she
hope and pain. Never, he swore, had he saw anything more beautiful or
sad. Involuntarily he placed his hand upon her arm. She flinched, her
muscles tensing under his finger tips. It was though his fingers carried
bath in ice water. Her heart sank. She shivered. She would never find
her desire here. He was cold--cold--cold! He wouldn't see. He didn't
care. All right--so that was how it had to be. But first she would tell
him. Then he could do with her as he wished. "I hoped--for the past year
that you would see me. That you would think of me not as a Lani, but as
a beloved." The words came faster now, tumbling over one another. "That
you would desire me and take me to those worlds we cannot know unless
you humans show us. I have hoped so much, but I suppose it's wrong--for
you--you are so very human, and I--well, I'm not!" The last three words
hands were on her shoulders and the nearness of him drove the breath
from her body. From a distance she heard a hard tight voice that was her
hard bright look that encompassed and possessed her! The curved lips
drawn over white, white teeth! The flared nostrils! The hungry demand
upon his face that answered the demand in her heart! And she knew--at
last--with a knowledge that turned her limbs to water, that she had
meaning! Kennon strode furiously down the dusty road toward Station One
trying to sublimate his inner conflict into action. It was useless, of
course, for once he stopped moving the grim tug-of-war between training
and desire would begin again, and no matter how it ended the result
would be unsatisfactory. As long as he had been able to delude himself
that he was fond of Copper the way a man is fond of some lesser species,
it had been all right. But he knew now that he was fond of her as a man
is of a woman--and it was hell! For no rationalization in the universe
would allow him to define her as human. Copper was humanoid--something
like human. And to live with her and love her would not be
miscegenation, which was bad enough, but bestiality which was a thousand
word, and even bestiality had become a loose definition on many worlds
with humanoid populations, the words had definite meaning and moral
force to a Betan. And--God help him--he was a Betan. A lifetime of
training in a moral code that frowned upon mixed marriages and shrank
appalled from even the thought of mixing species was nothing to bring
what their customs and codes prohibited them from doing to themselves.
For thousands of years--back to the very dawn of history when men had
bred horses and asses to produce mules--men had been mixing species
to produce useful hybrids. Yet a Betan who could hybridize plants or
animals with complete equanimity shrank with horror from the thought of
head angrily. He didn't know. There was no answer. But the idea--the
belief--was there, ingrained into his attitudes, a part of his outlook,
built carefully block by block from infancy until it now towered into a
Beta. In the rest of the Brotherhood, the color of a man's skin, the
shape of his face, the quality and color of his hair and eyes made no
difference. All men were brothers. But on Beta, where a variant-G sun
had already caused genetic divergence, the brotherhood of man was a term
that was merely given lip service. Betans were different and from birth
they were taught to accept the difference and to live with it. Mixing of
Betan stock with other human species, while not actually forbidden, was
so encircled with conditioning that it was a rare Betan indeed who would
risk self-opprobrium and the contempt of his fellows to mate with an
outsider. And as for humanoids--Kennon shuddered. He couldn't break the
the glad light in her eyes, as a burned child flees fire. He needed time
to think, time to plan. Yet his body and his surface thoughts wanted no
plans or time. Living with a Lani wasn't frowned upon on Flora. Many of
the staff did, nor did anyone seem to think less of them for doing
so. Even Alexander himself had half-confessed to a more than platonic
mind that kept repeating sodomite--sodomite--sodomite with a passionless
feet as he walked, and he looked up in surprise to see the white walls
look like you'd seen a ghost. And out in this sun without a helmet! Come
the curiosity that filled him. "I just had a call from Message Center
because the staff can handle routine matters--so maybe you'd better show
clicks in the background. "Here's your party," she continued. "Go ahead,
in Alexandria. That was a year ago. It seemed much longer. Since the
Boss-man had exiled his cousin to that bleak rock to the east of Flora
there had been no word of him. And now--he laughed a sharp bark of
humorless annoyance--Douglas couldn't have timed it better if he had
job at a time--and my contract reads veterinary service, not personal
which he was grateful. He packed quickly, threw his bags into the jeep,
and took off with almost guilty haste. He'd contact the Hospital from
the Otpens. Right now all he wanted was to put distance between himself
and Copper. Absence might make the heart grow fonder, but at the moment
propinquity was by far the more dangerous thing. He pointed the blunt
nose of the jeep toward Mount Olympus, set the autopilot, opened the
throttle, and relaxed as best he could as the little vehicle sped at top
speed for the outer islands. A vague curiosity filled him. He'd never
a Class II Fortalice. But this one wasn't like Alexandria. It was fully
vehicle down in the marked area." A section of the roof turned a garish
yellow as Kennon circled the building. He brought the jeep in lightly,
beam. He looked around curiously at the flat roof of the fortress
with its domed turrets and ugly snouts of the main battery projectors
pointing skyward. Beside him, the long metal doors of a missile launcher
made a rectangular trace on the smooth surface of the roof. Behind him
the central tower poked its gaunt ferromorph and durilium outline into
the darkening sky bearing its crown of spiderweb radar antennae turning
steadily on their gimbals covering a vast hemisphere from horizon to
Kennon, and the muscles of his body showed through the tightness of
his battle dress. His face was harsh, and in his hands he carried a
Burkholtz magnum--the most powerful portable weapon mankind had yet
lowered them to the ground floor. They passed through a gloomy
caricature of the Great Hall in Alexandria, through an iris, and down a
disciplined formation. Steel clanged on steel as they turned the corner
and moments later the whine of servos came faintly to their ears. From
somewhere deep in the pile a rising crescendo of generators under full
battle load sent out vibrations that could be sensed rather than heard.
A klaxon squawked briefly. There was another clash of metal, and a harsh
voice boomed through the corridors. "Fourteen seconds. Well done. Secure
conferred briefly with Kennon's guide, dilated the iris, and motioned
for Kennon to enter. The pastel interior of the modern office was a
His pudgy face was haggard with uncertainty and his eyes darted back
and forth as his fingers caressed the knobby grip of a small Burkholtz
jutting from a holster at his waist. There were new, unpleasant furrows
between his eyes. He looked older and the indefinable air of cruelty was
more pronounced. He had been frightened the last time Kennon had seen
He shifted uncomfortably from one foot to another. "I suppose Cousin
Alex will skin me for this, but there's nothing else I can do." He
licked his lips. "You've been here long enough--and you'll have to know
eventually." He fidgeted and finally sat down behind the desk. "We
have trouble. Half the Lani were stricken about four hours ago. It was
your description might be accurate, you still might miss something of
know? No one on the main island does except the Family. And we never
talk about it. Did Eloise tell you? I noticed she was struck with you
the day you came, and the Lani who have come out here since have been
artificial fertilization has more holes in it than a sieve. That
technique has been investigated a thousand times. And it has never
worked past the first generation. If you had been using it, the Lani
would long ago have been extinct. Haploids don't reproduce, and the only
way the diploid number of chromosomes can be kept is to replace those
lost by maturation division of the ovum. You might be able to keep the
diploid number by using immature ova, but the fertilization technique
would be far more complex than the simple uterine injections you use at
fertilizing solution. I found spermatozoa, and spermatozoa only come
from males. What's more, the males have to be the same species as the
females or fertilization will not take place. So there must be male
Lani. Nothing else fits. You've been using artificial insemination
on the main-island Lani. And from the way this place is guarded, it's
suppose," he said, "that's the way Old Doc found out too. We never told
the technicians could tell you. It's called electro--electro freezing
it. One of Grandfather's men did the basic work. We just follow
instructions." He shrugged. "Well--since you know the secret there's no
their barred doors. The whole area reminded him of a historical novel,
of the prisons of early human history where men confined other men for
infractions of social customs. The grimness of the place was appalling.
The male Lani--impressive in their physical development--were in
miserable condition, nauseated, green-faced, retching. The sickening
odors of vomit and diarrhea hung heavily on the air. Douglas coughed and
held a square of cloth to his face, and even Kennon, strong-stomached
as he was, could feel his viscera twitch in sympathy with the caged
them out! Give them some fresh air! This place would make a well man
shackled and there was an armed guard to help me. Those males are the
most vicious, cunning, and dangerous animals on Kardon. They exist with
on a bare cot, a magnificently muscled figure with a ragged black beard
hiding his face. There were dozens of scars on his body and one angry
purple area on his thick right forearm where flesh had been torn away
not too long ago. Beads of sweat stood out on his forehead and soft
moaning noises came from his tight lips as he pressed his abdomen with
too late. Kennon touched the bars, and as he did, the Lani moved with
fluid speed, one huge hand clutching Kennon's sleeve and pulling him
against the bars while the other darted for his throat. Fingers bit
into Kennon's neck and tightened in a viselike grip. Kennon reacted
automatically. His arms came up inside the Lani's and crashed down,
elbows out, tearing the Lani loose. He jumped back, rubbing his bruised
laughter. "He must be sick or he would have killed you. George is clever
was a beastlike note in his voice that made the short hairs on Kennon's
harsh. "All men fear me. All Lani, too. I am boss. Come close again man
life has been based on his ability to survive in an environment where
every male is his enemy. You see here the sublimation of individuality.
He cannot co-operate with another male. He hates them, and they in turn
hate him. George, here, is a perfect example of absolute freedom from
being a male, his mother thought she was favored by the gods and she
denied him nothing. In fact we were quite insistent that she gave him
everything he wanted. By the time he was able to walk and take care of
together." Douglas grinned. "You should see what happens when a dozen
spoiled brats are forced to live together. It's more fun. The little
beasts hate each other on sight. And we stimulate them to compete for
toys, food, and drink. Never quite enough to go around. You can imagine
what happens. Instead of sharing, each little selfish individualist
fights to get everything he can grab. Except for one thing we
don't punish them no matter what they do. If anyone shows signs of
co-operating he is disciplined severely, the first time. The next time,
he is culled. But other than that, we leave them alone. They develop
their personalities and their muscles--and if one proves to be too
much for his fellows we transfer him to a more advanced class where the
reaches maturity we have something like George. Actually, George is
more mature than either you or I. He has all the answers he needs. He's
strong, solitary, authoritative, and selfish. He has no curiosity and
resents encroachment. He's a complete individualist. If he proves out he
physical type we can in the hope that he'll pass his qualities to his
offspring, and there's no better practical way to select the strongest
and hardiest than by natural selection. We control their environment
as little as possible and let Nature do our educating until they're old
exposure to disease, to the elements, and to predators. The one isn't
selective about whom it infects, while the others would tend to produce
is a great deal of compensation from a management viewpoint. We get
essentially the same physical end product as we would from a closely
managed operation, plus a great saving in labor. Males, you see, are
We merely take advantage of natural impulses to produce a better
product. Grandfather got the idea out of an old book--something about
the noble savage, natural selection and survival of the fittest. He
thought it was great--said there was nothing like relentless competition
to bring out the strongest and hardiest types. And he's been right for
centuries. Can you imagine anything much better than George--from a
something bigger and more powerful than the male himself. And that would
modify the results. We can control them well enough with knockout gas
and shackles. And those things, oddly enough, don't destroy their pride
or self-esteem. They think that we use them because we are afraid, and
I must examine them and treat them, but if they're all as homicidal as
transparent guile. "I am boss and others do as I say. You beat me, then
beat him you'd be top male until some other one got courage enough to
challenge you. But he's just trying to get his hands on you. He'd like
at least five centimeters taller and fifteen kilograms heavier than
himself. And he was all muscle. "I don't think I'd care to accept that
get these brutes under control. I'm not going in there with them, and I
them quiet. There's no need to bother the troopers. We can handle this
capsules and the equipment." He turned and walked back to the entrance
humanoid glared back, his eyes bright with hatred. Kennon felt the
short hairs prickle along the back of his neck. George roused a primal
emotion--an elemental dislike that was deeper than reason--an antagonism
intensely physical, almost overpowering--a purely adrenal response that
encountered George. But if George was a typical male--then the Lani were
alien. He flexed his muscles and stared coldly into the burning blue
eyes behind the bars. There would be considerable satisfaction in
beating this monstrosity to a quivering pulp. Millennia of human
pre-eminence--of belief that nothing, no matter how big or muscular,
should fail to recognize that a man's person was inviolate--fed the
fuel of his anger. The most ferocious beasts on ten thousand worlds
had learned this lesson. And yet this animal had laid hands on him
with intent to kill. A cold corner of his mind kept telling him that he
wasn't behaving rationally, but he disregarded it. George was a walking
snapped. "I can handle you or anyone like you. And if you put your hands
he said. "We're ready for him." He handed Kennon the shackles and a key
I'll burn you down. You'll obey even if you won't do anything
thin-walled container broke, releasing a cloud of vapor. George
crumpled to the floor. "Now we wait a couple of minutes for the gas to
dissipate," Douglas said. "After that he's all yours. You can go in and
chuckled. "They're stupid," he said. "They know what gas does to them,
but they never have sense enough to hold their breath. They could be
twice as much trouble as they are. All right, it's safe to go in now."
with such force that Kennon was slammed against the wall, dazed--half
stunned by the speed of the attack. George--he had time to think in one
brief flash--wasn't stupid. He had held his breath for the necessary two
George dropped and rolled. The sizzling streak of violet flashed inches
above his body and tore a six-inch hole through the back of the cell.
And then George was on him! The huge, marvelously fast hands of the
humanoid wrenched the blaster out of Douglas's hands and jerked him
forward. A scream burst from Douglas as George's hands closed around his
neck. Muscles sprang into writhing life in the humanoid's huge forearms.
There was a soft, brittle crack, and Douglas sagged limp in the iron
back and came out into the passageway. "Maybe you make better fight,"
George said as he lowered his head into the muscular mass of his broad
arms held slightly forward. Kennon backed away, watching the humanoid's
eyes for that telltale flicker of the pupils that gives warning
of attack. The expression on George's face never changed. It was
satisfied--smug almost--reflecting the feelings of a brute conditioned
met an opponent like this. A chill raced up the back of his legs and
spread over his stomach and chest. His mouth was dry and his muscles
quivered with tense anticipation. But his concentration never wavered.
His hard blue eyes never left George's, searching with microscopic
snarl of rage and hate. But even as he charged Kennon moved. He ducked
beneath the Lani's outstretched hands and drove his left fist deep into
power of the blow. Kennon clipped him on the chin with a driving knee,
snapping George's head back and smashed the bearded face with the
shackles. Blood spurted and George screamed with rage. One of the Lani's
big hands wrapped around the shackles and tugged. Kennon let go and
handcuff rings scraped across Kennon's cheek, but did nothing more
than break the skin. Half paralyzed by the blows to his solar plexus,
George's co-ordination was badly impaired. But he kept trying. Kennon
wrapped lean fingers about one of George's outstretched hands, bent,
pivoted, and slammed the Lani with bone-crushing force against the bars
of a nearby cell. But George didn't go down. "He's more brute than man,"
Kennon thought. "No man could take a beating like that!" He moved aside
from George's stumbling rush, feeling a twinge of pity for the battered
humanoid. It was no contest. Strong as he was, George didn't know the
rudiments of hand-to-hand fighting. His reactions were those of an
animal, to close, clutch, bite, and tear. Even if he were completely
well, the results would have been the same. It would merely have taken
longer. Kennon drove a vicious judo chop to the junction of the Lani's
neck and shoulder. Brute strength was no match for the highly evolved
mayhem that every spaceman learns as a necessary part of his trade.
George had never been on planet leave in a spaceport town. He knew
nothing about the dives, the crimps, the hostile port police. His idea
of fighting was that of a beast, but Kennon was a civilized man to whom
fighting was an art perfected by millennia of warfare. And Kennon knew
George was strong, and George had courage and pride that kept him coming
as long as the blazing will behind his blazing eyes could drive his
mark. It was hardly more than a scratch, but it had been close. George
had his lesson and Kennon felt oddly degraded. He sighed, dragged George
serious condition. Kennon was still bending over Douglas wondering how
to call for help when three guards burst through the door, faces grim,
open door down here." He saw the body--"Mr. Douglas!" he gasped. "The
commandant will have to know about this!" He took a communicator from
his waist belt and spoke rapidly into it. "Arleson in stud cell block,"
he said. "Attempted escape. One casualty--Douglas Alexander--yes,
that's right. No--he's not dead. Send a litter and bearers. Inform the
commandant. I am making investigation on the spot. Out." He turned to
respect in his hard brown eyes. "You did that!--to him! Man, you're a
hold his breath. In that cell George would have killed you. You couldn't
He didn't have the answer. And it could just be that Douglas had tried
to show off. Well, he would pay for it. He'd have a stiff neck for
a professional soldier, came into the corridor followed by another
the smashed nose, the puffed eyes, the cuts and bruises, and then raked
have no trouble at all. You're top dog." Mullins gestured at the cages.
"They'll be good for a while. Now you'd better get on with your work.
There's been enough disruption of routine for today. The men will help
suggest you check your kitchen and your food handlers. There's a break
in sanitation that could incapacitate your whole command. I found a few
Doctor. Your airboat won't be serviced for another few minutes. Tell me
pup here, I couldn't leave. I didn't dare to. He'd have disrupted
routine in a single day. Look what he did in half an hour. Frankly, I
took us two months to straighten out Alexandria after the Boss-man sent
shrugged. "I hope the Boss doesn't send him back. He's hard to handle
raid on this place about fifty years ago. Seems as though one of our
competitors didn't like us. Alexandria was on a war footing then and
managed to hold them off. But it scared the Old Man. You see, our
competitive position is based on Lani labor. Our competitors didn't know
that. Their intelligence wasn't so good. Up until that time, we'd been
keeping the males out here in what was hardly more than a stockade.
Those people could have taken a few dozen females and a couple of males
and they'd have been in business. But they didn't know. They tried to
smash Alexandria instead. Naturally they didn't have a chance. And after
it was over the Old Man got smart. He still had the tapes for Alexandria
so he built a duplicate out here and spent a few millions on modern
this place, and without males, all the females on Flora wouldn't do
them enough long-term good to pay for the force they'd need to be
the best male is a dangerous beast. They have a flair for violence that
makes them useless as labor and their training doesn't help matters.
And the other is mental. The females on the main island believe that we
humans are responsible for the continuation of their breed. This tends
to keep them in line. We have a great deal more trouble with them out
here once they know the truth. We've had a number of cases of females
trying to engineer a male's escape. But they're never repeated," Mullins
said grimly. "Actually, it would be an interesting life out here, except
except for a few, they aren't as intelligent as a Santosian Varl. I know
that they look like us except for those tails, but that's as far as it
goes. I've spent two hundred years with them and I know what I'm talking
corpsman," he said. "Now I think I'd better be getting back. I have some
toward the door and gestured to the two Lani who waited outside with his
place and back to the main island. He wanted to see Copper. He'd be
damned if anyone was going to butcher her. If he had to stay here until
patients as he did toward the Lani, or if they ultimately lost their
individuality and became mere hosts for diseases, parasites,
and tumors--vehicles for the practice of surgical and medical
skills--economic units whose well-being meant a certain amount of
credits. Probably not, he decided. They were human and their very
animal medicine where economics was the main factor and the satisfaction
of the owner the principal personality problem. The normal farm animals,
the shrakes, cattle, sheep, morks, and swine were no problem. They were
merely a job. But the Lani were different. They weren't human, but they
were intelligent and they did have personality even though they didn't
possess that indefinable quality that separated man from the beasts. It
was hard to treat them with dispassionate objectivity. In fact, it was
right to identify them as individuals and treat them as persons
rather than things? The passing months had failed to rob them of their
personalities: they had not become the faceless mass of a herd of cattle
or a flock of sheep. They were still not essentially different
from humans--and wouldn't men themselves lose many of their human
characteristics if they were herded into barracks and treated as
property for forty generations? Wouldn't men, too, approach the animal
condition if they were bred and treated as beasts, their pedigrees
if he were so busy he could drop to his bed exhausted each night and
sleep without dreaming, if he could keep on the run so fast that he
wouldn't have time to sit and reflect. But he had done his work too
well. He had trained his staff too thoroughly. They could handle the
petty routines of minor treatment and laboratory tests as well as he. He
had only the intellectual stimulation of atypical cases and these were
all too rare. The routine inspections were boring, yet he forced himself
to make them because they filled the time. The hospital wards were
virtually empty of patients, the work was up to date, the whole island
was enjoying a carnival of health, and Kennon was still impaled upon
the horns of his dilemma. It wasn't so bad now that the first shock was
over, but it was bad enough--and showed no signs of getting better. Now
that Copper realized he wanted her, she did nothing to make his life
easier. Instead she did her best to get underfoot, usually in some
provocative position. It was enough to try the patience of a marble
statue Kennon reflected grimly. But it did have its humorous side
and were it not for the fact that Copper wasn't human could have
been thoroughly enjoyable. That, however, was the real hell of it. He
couldn't relax and enjoy the contest--his feet were on too slippery
ground. And Copper with her unerring female instinct knew just what to
do to make the footing slipperier. Sooner or later, she was certain that
he would fall. It was only a question of applying sufficient pressure at
the right spot and the right time. Now that she knew he desired her,
she was content to wait. The only thing that had bothered her was the
uncertainty whether he cared or not. For Copper the future was a simple
thing and she was lighthearted about it. But not so Kennon. Even after
the initial shock had passed there still remained the moral customs, the
conditioning, and the prohibitions. But Copper--was Copper--and somehow
the conditioning lost its force in her presence. Perhaps, he thought
wryly, it was a symptom of the gradual erosion of his moral character in
turning the pages of the Kardon Journal of Allied Medical Sciences.
she was sorting. He had given her the thankless task of reorganizing the
head to one side. From this angle Copper looked decidedly intriguing as
you what. You run up to the house and tell Kara to pack a lunch and
cards." She stood up and sidled past the desk. Kennon resisted the
impulse to slap as she went past, and congratulated himself on his
self-control as she looked at him with a half-disappointed expression
on her face. She had expected it, he thought gleefully. Score one for
Quick, volatile, intelligent, she was a constant delight, a flashing
kaleidoscope of unexpected facets. Perhaps the others were the same if
he knew them better. But he didn't know them--and avoided learning. In
the peacefully slumbering volcano. It was quiet and cool, and the light
breeze was blowing Olympus's smoky cap away from them to the west.
Copper unpacked the lunch. She moved slowly. After all, there was plenty
slowly moving higher on the mountain slopes. The trees, unlike those
of Beta, did not end abruptly at a snow line, but pushed green fingers
upward through passages between old lava flows, on whose black wrinkled
surfaces nothing grew. The faint hum of insects and the piping calls of
the birdlike mammals added to the impression of remoteness. It was hard
to believe that scarcely twenty kilometers from this primitive microcosm
was the border of the highly organized and productive farmlands of
able to see Alexandria," he added. "That's high enough and big enough."
He looked at her curiously. "How is it that you're so breathless?"
he asked. "We're not that high. You're getting fat with too much soft
are plumper. Not that I mind, but if you're going to keep that sylphlike
path. "Oh, oh," Kennon said. "We can't go over that." He looked at the
about this place that frightens me," she said uncomfortably as the high
black wails closed in, narrowing until only a slit of yellow sky was
visible overhead. The path underfoot was surprisingly smooth and free
from rocks, but the narrow corridor, steeped in shadows, was gloomy and
depressingly silent. It even bothered Kennon, although he wouldn't
admit it. What forces had sliced this razor-thin cleft in the dense
rock around them? Earthquake probably. And if it happened once it could
happen again. He would hate to be trapped here entombed in shattered
volcanic ash dotted with sputter cones opened before them. It was a
flat tableland, roughly circular, scarcely half a kilometer across,
a desolation of black rock, stunted trees and underbrush, and gray
volcanic ash. A crater, somewhat larger than the rest, lay with its
nearest edge about two hundred meters away. The rock edges were fire
polished, gleaming in the yellow sunshine, and the thin margin of trees
and brush surrounding the depression were gnarled and shrunken, twisted
like a meteor had struck here--but those stunted plants--hmm--there
must have been some radioactivity too." He looked at the crater
But the description fits--the Circle of Death, the Twisted Land--it's
death? There's something here that's peculiar and I want to know what it
harsh. "Come away before it is too late. Before the Silent Death strikes
trees and plants growing right up to the crater's edge. If they can
take it permanently, I can stand it for a few moments. If there's any
can stand more radiation than most men. A brief exposure isn't going to
he brought men to Flora. And your little look may bring an even greater
the terror and determination on her face. Neither commands nor pleas
would move her. If he went she would follow. The only way he could stop
her would be with violence, and he didn't want to manhandle her. He felt
an odd mixture of pride, tenderness, and admiration for her. Were their
situations reversed, he doubted whether he would have the courage she
was showing. He sighed. Perhaps she was right. Perhaps he did need an
until her strength returned. Belatedly he understood the emotional
strain that had been gripping her. "If you come back later, sir, you'll
poorly on an empty stomach. Let's go back to the jeep and you can tell
skip the Mysteries. I never even tried to learn them. Somehow I was sure
I'd never be a preceptress." She settled herself more comfortably on the
learn it to remember that we were once a great race--and that we may
be again. Someday there will come a male, a leader to bring us out of
bondage, and our race will be free of dependence on men. There will
be pairings again, and freedom to live as we please." She looked
thoughtfully at Kennon. "You might even be the one--even though you are
time before Flora when everything was nothing and the Master Himself was
was almost a song. Her face became rapt and introspective as she rocked
slowly from side to side. The rhythm was familiar and then he recognized
it--the unintelligible music he had often heard coming from the barracks
late at night when no men were around--the voiceless humming that the
than prose. But the form was not what he'd normally expect. It was
advanced, a style that was past primitive blank verse or heroic
 Brought to the Void by His wondrous hand;
 Then did the Master--Lord of Creation--
 Nod His great head, saying, "Let there be land!"
 Air, land, and water formed into being,
 Born in the sight of His all-seeing eyes;
 Then did the master--Lord of Creation--
 Smile as He murmured, "Let life arise!"
 All of the life conceived by the Master,
 Varied in shape as the grasses and birds;
 Hunters and hunted, moveless and moving,
 Came into form at the sound of His words.
the Central Worlds. Its followers call themselves Christians. They say
stories of the Creation. And possibly there may be another explanation.
Your ancestors could have picked this up from Alexander's men. They came
the origin of our world, even before Ulf and Lyssa. It is the first
Book--the Book of the God-spell. Man Alexander came in the sixth
where she had left off. And Kennon learned the Lani version of creation,
of the first man and woman, cast out of Heaven for loving each other
despite the Master's objection, of how they came to Flora and founded
the race of the Lani. He learned how the Lani grew in numbers and power,
how they split into two warring groups over the theological point of
whether Ulf or Lyssa was the principal deity, how Roga the Foolish
opened Lyssa's tower to find out whether the Ulfians or Lyssans were
of Ulf and the priests of Lyssa--united by this greatest sacrilege. And
he heard the Lani version of the landing of Alexander's ship and man's
of bravery and cowardice, of love and beauty. Yet through it all, even
through the redes that described the Conquest, there was a curious
remoteness, a lack of emotion that made the verses more terrible as they
our entire lives." Copper was silent for a moment. "There's lots more,"
she said, "but it's all about our lives since the Man Alexander--the old
one--took possession of us. And most of the newer redes are pretty dull.
Our life hasn't changed much since the men came. The Book of Man is
boring." Copper sighed. "I have dared a great deal by telling you these
him--and what would he give? Nothing. Not even his prejudices. His face
twisted. If she was only human, If she wasn't just an animal. If
he wasn't a Betan. If, if, if. Resentment gorged his throat. It was
unfair--so damned unfair. He had no business coming here. He should have
stayed on Beta or at least on a human world where he would never have
met Copper. He loved her, but he couldn't have her. It was Tantalus and
Sisyphus rolled into one unsightly package and fastened to his
soul. With a muttered curse he rose to his feet, and as he did he
stopped--frozen--staring at Copper as though he had never seen her
Heaven--and with his foolish meddling set the tower alight with a glow
pit, but the Silent Death has protected it from blasphemy--and besides
Man Alexander never learned about it. We feared that he would destroy it
back. We'll have a good look at that Pit, and if what's in there is what
I think it is"--his face was a mixture of grimness and eagerness--"we'll
said soberly. "Look at the trouble that came with Roga's meddling. Be
crazy. Get an idea in your head and it takes triatomate to blast it out.
look for, Kennon located the pockmarked mountain valley. From the air it
looked completely ordinary. Kennon was amazed at the perfection of the
natural camouflage. The Pit was merely another crater in the pitted
ground. He dropped to a lower altitude, barely a hundred feet above the
bluish-black hemisphere protruded from the crater floor. It would have
passed unnoticed by the casual eye--nearly concealed by two gigantic
anywhere. Let's go down and look this over, but first we want a couple
of pictures." He pointed a camera at the crater and snapped the shutter.
she prodded the shapeless green coveralls with a bare toe. She eyed the
Too adequately, Kennon decided. She looked like a pile of wrinkles with
the radiation counter. The needle slowly rose and steadied at one-half
roentgen per hour as he thrust the probe over the rim of the depression.
"It's fine, so far," he said encouragingly. "We could take this much
for quite a while even without suits." He lowered himself over the edge,
stay here indefinitely." The sigh of relief was music in her ears. "This
She hoped that Kennon didn't plan to work in the daytime. It would be
debris and ash that had fallen or blown into the pit during the
centuries it had rested there. It was old--incredibly old. The hull
design was ancient--riveted sheets of millimeter-thick durilium. Ships
hadn't been built like that in over two thousand years. And the ovoid
shape was reminiscent of the even more ancient spindizzy design. A
hyperspace converter like that couldn't be less than four millennia
old. It was a museum piece, but the blue-black hull was as smooth and
reflected. For five thousand years men had used the incredibly tough
synthetic to build their spacecraft. It had given man his empire. Kennon
gave the hull one quick glance. That part of the ship didn't worry him.
It was what he would find inside that bothered him. How much damage had
occurred from two thousand or more years of disuse? How much had the
original travelers cannibalized? How much could be salvaged? What sort
of records remained? There were a thousand questions that the interior
good sign. A few hours' work with a digger should expose it enough to be
excavator in the cargo bed of the jeep. Do you think you can bring it
There might be things inside that would settle the question of the Lani.
The original crew had probably recognized the value of the hull as
a repository as well as he did. But in the meantime there would be
little excavator toiled over the loose ash for hours before it displaced
enough to make the port visible, and the ash was not yet cleared away
sufficiently to open the portal when darkness brought a halt to the
digger, Kennon decided. It would be difficult enough to clear the
emergency airlock in the nose. But if the tubes and drive were still
all right, by careful handling it should be possible to use the drive to
would have to wait until tomorrow. Now they would have to conceal the
work and call it a day. A few branches and the big blocks of pumice
would suffice for temporary camouflage. Later they could make something
better. Anything in the jeep which might be useful was cached along with
the radiation suits in the passageway through the lava wall--and in a
the ship. Tomorrow they would probably have some of the answers to his
questions. He looked ahead into the gathering night. The gray mass of
the abandoned Olympus Station slipped below them as he lined the jeep
along the path indicated by the luminous arrow atop the main building,
set the controls on automatic, and locked the craft on the guide beacon
of course. Mutated. Genetic strangers to the rest of humanity. But
human. The spaceship and the redes proved it as far as he was concerned.
But moral certainty and legal certainty were two different things. What
he believed might be good enough to hold up in a Brotherhood court, but
he doubted it. Ulf and Lyssa might be the founders of the Lani race, but
they had come to Kardon nearly four thousand years ago and no records
existed to prove that the Lani weren't here before they came. Redes
passed by word of mouth through hundreds of generations were not
evidence. Even the spaceship wasn't the absolute proof that would be
needed to overturn the earlier legal decision. Other and better
proof was needed--something that would stand up in any court in the
was tempered by hard practicality. Too much depended on what he might
find inside that hull. Every step of the work must be documented beyond
any refutation. Some method of establishing date, time, and location had
to be prepared. There must be a record of every action. And that would
require equipment and planning. There must be no mistake that could be
prestige were involved. To prove the Lani human would destroy Outworld
Enterprises on Kardon. Yet this thought did not bother him. To his
surprise he had no qualms of conscience. He was perfectly willing to
violate his contract, break faith with his employers, and plot their
desires that leavened the nobility. To prove Copper human was enough
motivation--actually it was better than his sense of duty. Events,
Kennon reflected, cause a great deal of change in one's attitude.
Although not by nature a plotter, schemes had been flitting through his
mind with machinelike regularity, to be examined and discarded, or to be
on personalities, and had too little chance for success. He considered
the possibility of letters to the Brotherhood Council but ultimately
rejected it. Not only was the proof legally insufficient to establish
humanity in the Lani, but he also remembered Alexander's incredible
knowledge of his activities, and there was no reason to suppose that
his present didn't receive the same scrutiny as the past. And if he,
who hadn't written a letter in over a year, suddenly began to write, the
correspondence would undoubtedly be regarded with suspicion and would
probably be examined, and Dirac messages would be out for the same
could inform the Brotherhood. Leaving Flora wouldn't be particularly
difficult, but leaving Kardon would be virtually impossible. His
contract called for vacations, but it expressly provided that they would
be taken on Kardon. And again, there would be no assurance that his
activities would not be watched. In fact, it was probable that they
long-range measures that could be started. He could begin preparing a
case that could be presented to the Council. And Beta, when it knew,
would help him. The situation of the Lani was so close to Beta's own
that its obvious merit as a test case simply could not be ignored. If
he could get the evidence to Beta, it would be easy to enlist the aid
of the entire Medico-Technological Civilization. It would take time and
attention to detail; the case, the evidence, everything would have to
be prepared with every safeguard and contingency provided, so that there
transport it under its own power. The thought intrigued him. Actually it
wouldn't be too difficult. Externally the Egg wasn't in bad shape. The
virtually indestructible durilium hull was still intact. The controls
and the engines, hermetically sealed inside the hull, were probably as
good as the day they stopped running. The circuitry would undoubtedly be
bad but it could be repaired and restored, and new fuel slugs could be
obtained for the engine and the converter. But that was a problem for
cameras and recorders, the entrance port of the God-Egg swung open and
revealed the dark interior. Kennon moved carefully, recording every step
as he entered the black orifice in the spaceship's side. His handtorch
gave plenty of light for the recorders as he moved inside--Copper at his
"Either the curse has become too old to hurt us, or there never was any
of your people depend upon how carefully we work. You wouldn't want to
a lot of funny instruments and dials on the walls, and a video screen
overhead. But that's all. Why--what's so unusual about it? It looks just
approach from the outside. And radioactivity cools off slowly. It might
take several lifetimes for its level to become low enough to approach if
brittle--crumbling with age--but he could make out the title U.N.S.S.
Wanderer with the date of launching and a lower line which read "Ship's
Log." Kennon was thankful for his medical training. The four years
of Classical English that he had despised so much were essential now.
Stumbling over unfamiliar words and phrases, he moved slowly through
the log tracing the old ship's history from pleasure craft to short-haul
freight tractor to obsolescence in a space dump orbiting around a world
obsolete during the Interregnum. I had to learn it, since most medical
one came after the Second Galactic War--but never mind that--it happened
long ago and isn't important now. The important thing that did happen
beyond the next star. During that century men traveled wider and farther
then they ever have before or since. In that outward explosion with
its mixed motivations of religion and practicality, colonists and
missionaries went starward to find new worlds to tame, and new races to
be rescued from the darkness of idolatry and hell. Almost any sort
of vehicle capable of mounting a spindizzy converter was pressed into
service. The old spindizzies were soundly engineered converters of
almost childlike simplicity that could and did carry ships enormous
distances if their passengers didn't care about subjective time-lag, and
bought by Alfred and Melissa Weygand--a missionary couple with the idea
explosion that scattered human seed across parsecs of interstellar
space. It seems that they were a unit in a missionary fleet that had
gone out to the stars with flame in their hearts and Gospel on their
lips to bring the Word to the benighted heathen on other worlds."
Kennon's lips curled with mild contempt at their stupid foolhardiness
even as his pulse quickened to their bravery. They had been fanatics,
true enough, but theirs was a selfless fanaticism that would risk
torture and death for what they believed--a fanaticism that was more
sublime than the concept of Brotherhood which had evolved from it. They
knew nothing of the enmity of race, of the incessant struggle man
had since waged with alien intelligences all too willing to destroy
intruders who encroached upon their worlds. Mankind's early selflessness
had long ago been discarded for frank expansionism and dominance over
story that was more than the bare bones of flight. There was passion
and tenderness and a spiritual quality that was shocking to a modern
man steeped in millennia of conquest and self-interest. There was a
greatness to it, a depth of faith that had since been lost. And as
Kennon slowly deciphered the ancient script he admired the courage even
in hyperspace, doubling and twisting upon their course until they had
become hopelessly lost, and then, with their fuel nearly exhausted, had
broken out into the normal three-space continuum to find Kardon's sun
before their fuel was exhausted. And it was only by further grace that
the planet was habitable and not populated with intelligent life. They
had more luck than people were entitled to in a dozen lifetimes. Against
buildings--no sign of intelligent life. We are lost, marooned on this
empty world. Our fuel supplies are too low for us to attempt to find the
others. Nor could we. The constellations in the sky are strange. We do
not know which way to go. Therefore we shall land upon the great island
in the center of the yellow sea. And perhaps someday men will come to us
since we cannot return to them. Melissa thinks that this is an example
of Divine Providence, that the Lord's mercy has been shown to us that
were lost in the vastness of the deep--that we have been chosen, like
Eve and Adam, to spread the seed of man to yet another world. I hope
she is right, yet I fear the radiation level of the ship has become
inordinately high. We may well be Eve and Adam, yet an Adam that cannot
beget and an Eve that is not fruitful. I am trimming the ship for
landing, and we shall leave it immediately after we have landed, taking
with us only what we absolutely need. There is too much radiation from
the spindizzy and the drive to remain here longer--and God knows how hot
But not proof. Lawyers could argue that since no direct exploration was
made there was no valid reason to assume that the Lani did not already
inhabit Kardon. But Kennon knew. His body, more perceptive than his
mind, had realized a truth that his brain would not accept until he read
the log. It was at once joy and frustration. Joy that Copper was human,
frustration that he could not obtain for her and her race the rights
to which they were entitled. But the immediate problem was solved. His
conditioning was broken now he was convinced that Copper was a member
of the human race. It was no violation of his code to love her. The
greatest barrier was broken, and with it gone the lesser ones would
yield. Relief that was almost pain washed through him and left him weak
book, yet you turn to me with the look in your eyes that the redes say
probably very little about the injustice of her present. The thing that
mattered was that what had kept them apart was gone. She was probably
offering mental sacrifices to the Old Ones who had caused this change
in the man she loved. She didn't really care about what had caused the
apparently was for her. The fact that Copper was human posed a greater
problem than the one it solved. The one had been personal. The other was
infinitely greater. He could not let it lie. The very morality which had
kept him from doing what he wished when he thought she was a humanoid
now forced him to do what he did not wish. Every instinct said to leave
it alone. The problem was too great for one man to solve, the situation
too complicated, the evidence too inconclusive, the opposition too
powerful. It would be far better to take his happiness and enjoy it.
It was not his problem to solve. He could turn the evidence over to
the Brotherhood once his contract was over, and better and more capable
people than he could settle the Lani legal status. But the inner voice
that had called him bestial now called him shirker, coward, and slacker.
And this, too, could not be borne. The case of the Lani would have to
be pursued as vigorously as he could do it. They were entitled to human
decided as they finished the inspection of the ship. Even if it was
never used it would make a good means of retreat. He grinned wryly. In a
guerrilla operation such as the one he was considering it would be wise
to have a way out if things got too hot. The heavy parts, the engines
and the controls, were in workable condition and would merely require
cleaning and oiling. Some of the optical equipment would have to be
replaced and fuel slugs would have to be obtained for the drive--but
none of these would be too hard to accomplish. The slugs from any of the
power reactors on the island would serve nicely. All that would have
to be done would be to modify the fuel ports on the ship's engine. The
spindizzy would have to be disassembled and checked, and the main leads,
embedded in time-resistant plastic, would have to be examined. The most
serious problem, however, wouldn't involve these things. The control
board wiring and circuitry was where the trouble would lie. Normal
insulation and printed circuitry wasn't designed to last for thousands
of years. Each wired circuit would have to be removed, duplicated, and
replaced. Every printed panel would have to be cleaned and receive a new
coat of insulating varnish. Working full time, a four-man electronics
team could do the job in a week. Working part-time the two of them might
get it done in three months. And the other jobs would take at least
another. Add a month for errors in judgment, lack of materials, and
mistakes--and another for unavoidable delays--it would be at least six
any mistakes. He would have to be careful, yet he must not give the
impression of being careful. He shook his head. Being a subversive was
going to require a greater amount of acting ability than he had ever
knowledge that she was human and knowledge of the spaceship? Women
weren't noted for their tight-lipped reticence. Would she tell the other
Lani? Would she crack under the pressure? Did she have the qualities of
was all that could be wished. Everything was normal. She was still
obedient, helpful, and gay as ever. To watch her, no one would ever
think that her bright head was full of knowledge that could rock Flora
to its foundations. Never by look or word did she betray the slightest
the repair work on the Egg whenever Kennon could get time to visit the
in place and spun the bolts on the lugs that held it to the outer
shielding. He picked up a heavy wrench and began methodically to seat
the bolts as Copper wiped the white extrusion of the cover sealant from
centuries, yet you do not know our redes. Nor do you know what we think,
We obey you, but there are parts of us you do not own. It is easy to
the drive room would be restored and they could start on the control
circuits. "I wish you were as clever about adopting human customs as you
Why should I learn them? I'm happy as I am. I love you, you love me, and
civilized customs are necessary in a civilized society?" He gave the
next-to-last bolt an extra-vicious wrench. "You'll have to know them if
Alexander tried many years ago to make us long-lived like you. But he
should stay here. There will be other Lani when I am gone. You will be
Lyssa may have been human before they came here, but they were not when
understand. I know nothing of right and justice. What are these things?
Just words. Yet you will endanger our happiness for them. If it is my
happiness you wish--then leave this foolishness alone. I have fifteen
years I can live with you before I am old and you tire of me. With those
try to get it, I shall help. And if we do not succeed you will at least
be happier for trying. And if you are happy"--she shrugged--"then the
convinced she was human. She was not. And until her mind could be
changed on that point she would help him but her heart wouldn't be in
it. And the only thing that would convince her that she was human would
be a child--a child of his begetting. He could perhaps trick her with
an artificial insemination of Lani sperm. There were drugs that could
suspend consciousness, hypnotics that would make her believe anything
actions were examined under psychoprobe, and a hypnotic was of no value
against a lie detector that could extract the deepest buried truth.
And he would be examined too. The truth would out--and nothing would be
gained. In fact--everything would be lost. The attempt at trickery would
prejudice any court against the honest evidence they had so painfully
the evidence would hold. With Betan legal talent at their back it
might. And, of course, they could try to produce a child as nature had
intended. They could try--but Kennon knew it would not succeed. It never
over in his bed and watched her standing before the full-length mirror
on the bathroom door. She pivoted slowly before the glass, eying herself
critically, raising her arms over her head, holding them at her sides,
flexing her supple spine and tightening muscles that moved like silken
seen it before among Lani at Hillside Farm. It was an odd syndrome
which occasionally occurred in humans and animals. The brain, desiring
children, made demands upon the body and the body responded to its
desire by tricking the brain. Lani were fairly subject to it probably
because they had better imaginations. He would run a few tests when they
went down to the hospital, and once she realized the practical joke her
body was playing everything would be all right. No wonder she seemed
thinking, but you're wrong. We Lani know about these things. In forty
looked at him wide-eyed. "Not now. Because if you have, neither your
ready for them yet. They'll fight, and the first thing they'll do is
kill you and erase me so we would never be able to talk. You have been
revolt. For the Lani would no longer be dependent upon Men to survive.
Their greatest hold on us would be gone. And we would be free again on
Alexander would have men here within a week, and a week after that you
would be smashed. Don't you realize that there are thousands of millions
of men in the galaxy--and to every one of them you would be animals. You
know nothing about what you would face. Your puny hundreds couldn't even
stand against a fraction of the power Alexander could mount against you.
Have you seen a Burkholtz blaster work? Have you seen remote-control
antipersonnel missiles? Have you push-pull projectors, atomic warheads?
All of these weapons Alexander can command. Don't you realize he's an
you for the past two months. You're just as human as I am. But pray that
you're not pregnant. We can't get out of here in less than four months
and by then everybody will know about you. Someone will certainly check
the records. And after that will come the psychoprobes. Everything will
come to light. The Egg will be destroyed. I will be erased. You will be
dead. And that will be the end of it." He looked down at her with an odd
didn't figure on the remote possibility that we might be genetically
compatible. I should have my head examined for putting you in such
danger. However there's the possibility--the probability--that your body
and the child is yours. But the fault is no more yours than mine. I
wanted you before you looked on me. I still do and I do not feel at
fault. That I am yours, that my child is yours is a thing of wonder and
rivulets of tears, and bitterness galled his throat. Dear God--let her
be wrong, he prayed silently. Let it be pseudopregnancy this time. Let
was the proof he needed. The final test that would prove the Lani human.
And he had no way of getting it where it would do any good. It would
take at least four months of steady labor before the ship was ready, and
he didn't have that sort of time. He was needed here and his prolonged
absence would cause suspicion and investigation. Something would have to
be done--but what? He couldn't take Copper off the island in an airboat.
They were checked with microscopic care by Otpen One's IFF. A jeep
didn't have enough range to take them to the mainland. And even if they
got there they couldn't get off the planet. Alexander knew everything
that happened on Kardon's two spaceports. The Egg was the only way, but
wouldn't work. It would be impossible, to hide a baby on a place where
every birth was recorded. Nor could one hide evidence of pregnancy in a
Lani. Childbearing leaves telltale marks upon the body, and Copper, even
if she could be concealed for the duration of her pregnancy, could never
survive the sharp-eyed scrutiny of her fellows or the other humans.
strange how so little a thing as the union of a spermatozoon and an ovum
could produce so much trouble. He looked across the office at Copper
placidly filing case cards. She wasn't worrying. With sublime faith,
she was sure that he would find the answer, the one that would solve
everything. He shuddered. The only logical solution was abortion--and
that was unthinkable! He would not murder his child--nor would Copper
he grinned feebly. Alexander didn't know. He couldn't know. It had to be
The location was different--the conference room in Alexandria was more
formal than Blalok's parlor but the same people were present: Alexander,
Blalok, Jordan, and himself. Somehow Alexander seemed to have shrunk. He
was no longer as impressive as he had been. But the man still radiated
force, even though it didn't seem quite so overpowering. The year,
Kennon thought, had done much to build his self-confidence. He felt
success is due to co-operation from the operating staff. And that's
Blalok's doing--he knocked the heads of the division managers together
and they took care of their staffs. Otherwise we could have had a bad
admiration society. I called you because I want to expand the Lani
at the head of the table. "There's going to be no selling. The Lani are
too valuable for that. We'll need them more than the money they'd bring
on the market. You see--I've acquired a planet out on the periphery. A
place called Phoebe. One of our ships found it, and I staked a discovery
claim on the major land mass, and the crew made lesser claims that
covered all the available land. Last month the Brotherhood allowed the
claims. Last week the crewmen sold me their land. Phoebe's a lovely
place--quite a bit like Flora--and the ecological tests show it's
capable of supporting mammalian life. Just before I came here I sent
three shiploads of exterminators to clean it up and make it ready for
difference," he said. "But it could have. The Lani are sensitive to
things like that. If they thought that they were walking in over a pile
of bodies they'd do badly. It'd be like Olympus all over again. And we
couldn't keep them from knowing. We talk and we forget, but they'd tell
domes--but why do you?--oh! I see! I hadn't considered that point."
Alexander's hand darted to the phone beside him. "Get me Albertsville,"
he snapped. "Yes, my offices--I want Mr. Oliver in purchasing and
contracting. Hello--Ward? Alexander here. Yes--everything's fine. I
have a job for you--use your scrambler-pattern two." Alexander
dialed the scrambler code on the second dial at the base of the phone,
effectively preventing eavesdropping by beam tappers. "Yes," he went on.
"It's Project Phoebe. Have you secured title to the moons? You haven't?
Well--you'd better do it before some of our competitors get bright
ideas. Sure they know about the project--do you think they're stupid?
Warren over at Consolidated practically told me that he was onto our
scheme. So get title to those moons. Since they're uninhabitable and
within the planet's primary field they come under the Spatial Debris Act
and you should be able to get Kardonian title without any great amount
of trouble. Naturally we want them.--For defense--what else? We'll have
most of our eggs in that basket. No--I don't know how we overlooked that
point. But if it wasn't for a bright young man out here we'd have left
ourselves wide open. Now get cracking--get that leak plugged!" Alexander
dropped the phone back in its cradle and sighed. "Well--that's buttoned
shattering certainty exploded in his mind--Alexander was a telepath!
That was his difference! That was the thing that made him feared and
respected by his business associates. It wouldn't have been enough on
the Central Worlds, where men knew of sensitives and took precautions
correctly." From somewhere deep in his memory an old quip came floating
to the surface: "An executive is a man who picks brains--others'
brains." By that definition Alexander was an executive of the first
thinking about? Had he thought of--two times two are four, four times
four are sixteen, sixteen times sixteen are--let's see, six times
sixteen is ninety-six, one times sixteen is--six, five, carry
contract, and you wrote a Peeper Clause into it. And then you peep in
the worst way possible. There's no defense against a Telep unless
you know about him; you've had my whole mind bare! You've violated my
personal privacy like no man has done before. Sure I'm mad. I expected
honesty from you--and you peep!" The anger was stronger now--a wave of
raw emotion based on a lifetime of training in mutual respect of a man's
privacy--a feeling intensified by his childhood environment of a crowded
planetary ecology and the cramped crew quarters on a spaceship. To
bookcase behind Alexander was a thing of beauty. Alexander liked beauty.
He had said so, and the Great Hall below them bore it out. It was a
lovely room. Those four bronze Lani in the fountain were works of art.
One of them looked remarkably like Copper. Copper in bronze. The little
witch had probably posed for the casting. Maybe it had even been made
twelve petals, limpid white on the borders shading to deep blue in the
center-from which the cream-colored stamen surrounded by transparent
pistils sprang to burst into a golden glory of pollen that dripped
in tiny yellow flecks to the broad petals below. It was a magnificent
flower. There was nothing like it on Beta. That was a marvelous thing
about flowers--wherever one went in the universe, plants used the same
methods to fertilize their seed and spread their germ plasm. It was too
bad that--Kennon jerked his attention to Alexander's face. He detested
the thought that his mind was common property. A man should have
something he can call his own. There had been a clinics instructor
in Year Six who was a sensitive. The classes had protected themselves
against his prying with a circlet--a thought screen--he had done it too.
Maybe he had brought the circlet with him. If he did, no one was going
to catch him without it. It was a dirty business, this reading of
others' thought. Now where had he put that circlet? Was it among his old
"As you are, you're nothing but a disruption. I want you in on this
peeping," Kennon said grimly. "And if you think this is bad wait till I
remembered Alexander was squeamish and didn't like anatomy. The door
was to his left, an iris door with eight leaves--terribly old-fashioned.
button on that young man," he said. "He has a pathological attitude
toward telepathy. Wonder what he has to hide that he wants privacy so
like a fool. He's gotten himself mixed up with one of the Lani. Cute
a girl kept popping up." Alexander chuckled. "I suppose that's the
trouble. A man hardly likes to look a fool, particularly to someone
who has warned him. At that, I don't blame him. They are beautiful and
affectionate. And even with their superstitions and tabus they're better
attention to Blalok. "But for awhile, Evald, I'd suggest you keep an
eye on our young man. I still don't like his reaction. It was too
violent--too defensive. I don't feel right about it. Perhaps Betans are
more sensitive than most people but it seems to me that he's trying
to conceal something. There was an undertone of fear--and something
circlet sandwiched between two books on comparative neuroanatomy which
he hadn't bothered to unpack. He slipped it on and connected the lead
wires to a portable battery pack. There was a half-forgotten tingling
as the weak field heterodyned his thought waves. Kennon sighed. If
Alexander wasn't suspicious of him now the man was a fool. He'd done as
well as he could with confusion and outrage, but it was hardly possible
to hide behind superficialities. Even the most disciplined mind couldn't
do that without some preparation. Undoubtedly his concern about Copper
had leaked through. He could only hope that other and more important
doubly careful from now on. He couldn't make daily trips to Olympus. His
reaction had killed that plan. Alexander would be suspicious now--and
unusual actions would crystallize suspicion to certainty. Now he needed
a reason to be in that area. And then he grinned. He had a reason--a
good one--one that would fit in with Alexander's plans and his own.
The only problem would be to make Alexander buy it--and that might be
difficult. He'd have to work carefully--but with normal luck he could
put the idea across. He crossed his fingers as he trudged back up the
things--which was a tribute to Alexander's ability to keep the subject
in hand. Details of the expansion program presented by Alexander were
rapidly reduced to workable plans. They involved some rearrangement of
existing facilities, and the construction of others. But the obvious
snags were rapidly disposed of, and the whole revamped operation was
outlined on paper in surprisingly few hours. A deadline date was set,
construction was authorized, and in the morning the first steps in the
Olympus Station. I've often wondered why that particular location has
been so difficult to operate. Sure, I know the accepted explanation,
but I think we should learn why it works and how to break a tabu. If we
all I could discover was that it was tabu. The Lani simply didn't like
it. And despite the fact that I can read minds, I didn't learn any more
than that. There's a certain sex-linkage to telepathy, as you probably
emotion rather than reasoned thought. They were nervous, irritable,
disobedient, and uncooperative while they were there--and even they
didn't know why. It was merely tabu. We even tried youngsters--but the
number of Lani to a strange world, we should know their deepest
motivations. We cannot take the chance that the transplant won't take,
place into a number of separate units in which groups of--say ten--Lani
of various ages are kept. Let every group know where they are, but don't
let them come in contact with one another. Observe them constantly. Put
spy cells in the units. Couple them to recorders. Prepare a set of test
situations and observe how each group performs. Question individuals
under narcosynthesis. Observe and record any changes in physical
condition--give them the works. Maybe we can collect some basic data
evaluate its results. The only thing I could do would be to check the
guarantee that the specialist wouldn't want to make changes. But the
proposal more closely. It has merit. That's the second constructive
suggestion you've made tonight. Despite your peculiar desire for
But it was too early to tell whether he had swallowed it without
reservation. It all depended upon how much had been given away before
he had discovered that Alexander was a telepath. Perhaps Alexander was
merely leading him on. There were too many intangibles, and there was no
excuse. There was plenty of work to do if he was going to prepare an
adequate plan for utilizing Olympus Station. Jordan went with him,
but Blalok stayed behind. It was natural enough. Blalok was the
administrator, but Kennon felt uneasy. Nor would he have felt any better
probable that his suggestion was honest. I think it is but I'm not sure.
He worries me now that I can't read him. I think I'll send Douglas back
cousin's undying enmity." Alexander laughed. "I know," he said. "He'd
is all right, I'm going to authorize him to set up this experiment. I
want to give him every possible chance. I like him--and he's done good
said bitterly. "I hired out as a veterinarian, not as a nursemaid for
a bunch of psychoneurotic humans and superstitious Lani. The place is
jinxed, they tell me.--Ha! Jinxed! Sure it's jinxed! What job wouldn't
catfit, and the superstitious idiots are affecting the men--who ought to
know better! I wish I'd never have opened my big mouth to Alexander! As
trouble. I order materials--they don't arrive. There's worker trouble,
equipment trouble, installation trouble. Everybody's cutting corners,
trying to get done faster and away sooner--and all they do is mess up
work that should have been done right the first time. We should have
been finished last week, but we have another week to go, at least unless
some bumble-fingered beanbrain gets another bright idea that sets us
what do you think you'll find? Or has Alexander dragged you into keeping
suspicious." Kennon shrugged. "Normally I wouldn't blame him but it's
a damned nuisance with things the way they are. All we have is one more
simmer down. Sure--the Boss-man told us to keep an eye on you--but
The coils of fuel wire were ready to load, and the power slugs for the
ship's reactor were already stored in the power plant building here at
Olympus. Three more days and the old spacer would be as ready to fly as
as he turned back to the temporary quarters he was occupying at the
It was odd, he thought, how one thing led to another and produced an
end that could not be foreseen. Now he could lie and dissemble with the
best. He had no compunction about falsifying a requisition, or stealing
what he could not obtain with apparent honesty. His character had sunk
to an all-time low, he reflected with grim humor as he walked into the
shadow of the main building. Neither Blalok's nor Jordan's frequent
visits bothered him. Both men were creatures of habit and both were
married. They stayed home at night--and it was nighttime that he worked
on the spacer. The project afforded him a perfect cover and it was only
impossible if it wasn't for Copper. Her quick fingers, keen eyesight,
and uncanny memory made the work seem simple, and neither the
tediousness of repairing miles of circuitry nor the depressing
environment of Olympus Station seemed to bother her. While he worked
with the men on the project she restored and reassembled circuits in
his quarters and at night they replaced them in the old ship. And the
the rest. Olympus didn't bother her at all. In fact she seemed to thrive
on the depressing atmosphere that filled the Station. Perhaps it was
because she had violated the tabu about the God-Egg so often that
ordinary superstition had no effect upon her. He shrugged. He had
troubles enough without worrying about Copper's motivations, and not the
too much about the ancient spacer that was strange--and too much that
spindizzy converter that might possibly take her up as high as middle
yellow Cth--far enough to give her a good turn of speed, but not enough
to compensate for timelag. Her screens were monstrosities, double
polyphase lattices that looked about as spacetight as so many sieves.
There were no acceleration dampers, no temporal compensators, no
autopilot, no four-space computer, and the primaries operated on nuclear
rather than binding energy. The control chairs weren't equipped with
forcefields, but instead had incredibly primitive safety webs that held
one in place by sheer tensile strength. Taking a ship like that into
space was an open invitation to suicide. A man needed a combination of
foolhardy bravery and incredible fatalism to blast off in a can like
this. He had the stimulus, but the knowledge of what he would face
troubled him more than he cared to admit. More and more, as he
understood the ship, he was amazed at the courage of the ancients who
had blithely leaped into hyperspace in these flying coffins with no more
motivation than to see what was beyond the nearest star. And in ships
more primitive than this men had swept through the star systems nearest
neatly stacked beside her, and a disorderly file of crumpled cloth at
her feet. Her face was sullen as she looked up at him. "I've had about
all of this I'm going to take," she said mutinously as she stirred the
heap of cloth with a bare foot. "Not even you are going to make me wear
patiently to indoctrinate Copper with a minimum of civilized habits, but
she was quite literally a savage. In her entire lifetime she had never
worn clothing, and to encase her body in hose, kilts, blouse, and
sandals was a form of torture. She scratched, wiggled, and twisted at
the garments until she looked as bad as she felt, and would usually
finish a session by tearing off the offending clothes and sulking. She
you must act human. The only planet where you could get away with nudity
only place I know where you'll have a fair hearing. And on Beta people
wear clothes. They have to. It's cold, even in summer, and in the
she muttered as she picked up the clothing, "but I hope you'll itch
the time we're on the ship. You'll keep wearing clothing until it looks
incongruous. That was the wonder of her, Kennon reflected. Her mercurial
temperament made life something that was continually exciting She was a
he would need. The four reactor cores in their lead cases went aboard
Olympus Station vanished below him in the dusk. The last of the work
crew had left that afternoon. The station was ready for occupancy.
His assignment had been completed. He felt an odd pleasure at having
finished the job. Alexander might not be happy about his subsequent
actions, but he could have no complaint about what he did while he was
Not only is it sacrilege, but as you've often said, it's dangerous. I
you decided to go I'd go with you even though I knew the Egg would blow
the picture it revealed. "So that's where he's going," he said softly
to himself. "Cousin Alex was right as usual." He grimaced unpleasantly.
"He's up to something--that's for sure." His face twisted into an
expression that was half sneer, half triumph. "This is going to be
fun." He moved the control, and his airboat, hovering silently at five
thousand meters, dropped toward the ground in free fall as Douglas
loosened the Burkholtz in the holster at his waist. "But what is he
doing?" he muttered. The question hung unanswered in the still air of
action. Normally he might have been, but his fear of his cousin was
greater than his respect for Blalok. The superintendent had only
succeeded in accomplishing something he had not intended when he had
tried to dissuade Douglas from visiting Kennon. He had made Douglas
cautious. The airboat and long-range surveillance had been the result.
For the past two nights Douglas had hung over Olympus Station, checking
the place--to leave at dawn when the new day's work began. For two
nights Kennon had been lucky. He had departed for the Egg shortly before
Douglas took up his station, and had returned after the watcher had
called it a night and had returned home. But this last night, Kennon
airboat's hull, and a wave of icy coldness swept through his chest.
open and Douglas dropped to the ground, Burkholtz jutting from his pudgy
I thought better of you than that, Doctor. And all dressed up in
antiradiation suits. This is interesting. Just what are you doing up
Douglas thank Ochsner it was Douglas! He was running true to
watching them on radar? Durilium was radar-transparent. It absorbed
and dissipated electromagnetic waves rather than reflecting them. For a
half-paralyzed Copper and jerked the hood back from her face. For a
moment he looked puzzled. "Just who are you?" he demanded. "I don't
recall seeing you before." And then recognition dawned. "Old Doc's
be surprised at what we've uncovered." He made his muscles relax, and
forced himself to speak naturally. Copper, he noted, was still rigid
with terror. The Alexanders--any of them--were everything he had said
they were. They were the masters here. And despite Copper's boast, she
find without your help." He half turned to Copper. "Stay where you are,
before. One word from Douglas and she had become a zombie--a mindless
muscle preparation that existed only to obey. Anger filled him--anger
that one he loved could be ordered by someone who wasn't worth a
third of her--anger that she obeyed--anger at his own impotence and
frustration. It wasn't a clean anger. It was a dark, red-splashed thing
that struggled and writhed inside him, a fierce unreasoning rage that
seethed and bubbled yet could not break free. For an instant, with
blinding clarity, Kennon understood the feelings of the caged male Lani
that torch loose carefully--that's it--now hand it to me." Douglas' hand
closed over the smooth plastic. Cautiously he turned on the beam and
throat. Copper! His muscles tensed as her arm came up and down--a
shadow almost invisible in the starlight. The leaning figure of Douglas
collapsed like a puppet whose strings had been suddenly released. The
torch dropped from his hand and went bouncing and winking down the wall
of the pit, followed by Douglas--a limp bundle of arms and legs that
rotated grotesquely as he disappeared down the slope. Starlight gleamed
on the Burkholtz lying on the lip of the crater, where it had fallen
love to you," Copper said smugly as she peered over the edge of the pit,
a chunk of lava gripped in one small capable hand. "Maybe this proves
was an eloquent gesture expressing disgust, resignation, and unwilling
Douglas had taken a moment before. He found him sitting on a pile of
of humans named Alfred and Melissa Weygand. They were Christian
missionaries from a planet called Heaven out in Ophiuchus Sector. Went
out to convert aliens and landed here when their fuel ran out."
Kennon paused. "That was about four millennia ago. Their descendants,
naturally, reverted to barbarism in a few generations, but there's
enough evidence in the ship to prove that the Lani were their
too choosy about how they scattered radiation. And they had come a long
way." He paused, looking down at Douglas, feeling a twinge of pity for
the man. His world was crumbling. "And there was no other human blood
available to filter out their peculiarities. It might have been done
during the first couple of generations, but constant inbreeding fixed
he said. "You're just a damned sneaking spy. Somehow or other you got
a spacer in here after you wormed your way into Cousin Alex's
confidence--and now you're going to space out with the nucleus of a new
farm. Just wait. When Alex learns of this the galaxy'll be too small to
a spacer here without being spotted? You sound like a two-credit novel.
And even if I did--would it be a can like this?" Kennon played the torch
believe. You have a mental block. You've killed, maimed, tortured--
treated them like animals--and now your mind shrinks from admitting
they're human. You know what will happen if the old court decision is
reversed. It will wreck your little empire, dry up your money, break
you--and you can't stand the thought of that. You don't dare let us
leave, yet you can't stop us because I have your blaster and I'd just
as soon shoot you as look at your rotten face. Now get on your feet and
start climbing if you want to stay alive. We're getting out of here, and
autopilot. You'll be able to get loose quickly enough but it'll be too
late to stop us. We'll be gone, and you can think of how you'll manage
which failed to surprise Kennon. "You know," he said, "I've been around
Lani all my life. And I know that they're not human. No self-respecting
Lani unless he separated the sexes. And since women are more subjective
in their outlook--and more pliable--he picked them for his slaves. The
males he retired to stud. Probably the fact that there were more women
freeman and potential slaves. The latter invariably outnumber the
former. They're cowards: the timid, the unsacrificing--the ones that
want peace at any price--the ones who will trade freedom for security.
Those were the ones who hid rather than risk their lives fighting
the aggressor. Those were the ones who survived. Old Alexander had a
ready-made slave cadre when he finished off the last of the warriors.
For four centuries the survivors have been bred and selected to
perpetuate slave traits. And the system works. The men don't want
freedom--they want liberty to kill each other. The women don't want
freedom--they want males. And they'd serve them precisely as the Sarkian
women serve their menfolk. You've killed any chance they had to become
a civilization. It's going to take generations perhaps before they're
right until you came here. We'd still be doing all right if I had shot
you both." His shoulders sagged. "I should have killed you when I had
get away with a whole skin. I don't expect you to be grateful, but at
least you'll not be on my conscience. I don't enjoy killing, not even
whole world into chaos over a few thousand animals. I don't understand
a dog? We treat them like the animals they are. And we've done no worse
to kill me, so you can keep on treating them as animals--even though you
kill you cheerfully if I had the chance. It's our necks if you get away
with this. Of course, you probably won't, but why take the chance. I
blame you. To you it's probably better to be a rich slaver living off
the legacy of a Degrader than a penniless humanitarian. But you've lost
hole clear through your rotten carcass if you make another move. I have
just nervous reaction. Now web in like I showed you. It's time for
everything. The ship is as good as she'll ever be. There's nothing more
Below them a soft, barely audible whine ascended the sonic scale to
a point of irritating inaudibility. Kennon smiled. The spindizzy was
functioning properly. He flipped a second bank of switches and a dull
roar came from the buried stem. Ashes and pumice heated to incandescence
were blown through the air. Molten drops of radioactive lava skittered
across the durilium hull as Kennon advanced the power. The whole stem
of the ship was immersed in a seething lake of bolling rock as the Egg
and the Egg shimmered and vanished with a peculiar wrenching motion
into an impossible direction that the mind could not grasp. And the
interceptor missile from Otpen One nosed through the space the Egg had
board, shifting oddly in the harsh yellow monochromatic light that
pervaded the cabin. The screens were leaking like sieves, but they were
holding well enough to keep Cth yellow from being anything more than an
annoyance. He glanced over at Copper, a fantastically elongated Copper
and collapsed into a small writhing ball from which two small pink hands
emerged clutching at a gelid mass of air that flowed sluggishly around
nothing to inflict upon an unprepared mind. It is one thing to endure
partial exposure after months of training, with experienced medics
standing by to help you through the shock phase, but quite another to
be thrust from a safe and sheltered existence into the mind shattering
filters. Through the hull, through the drive lattice, the viciously
distorted Cth environment seeped into the ship turning prosaic shapes
of controls and instruments into writhing masses of obscene horror that
sent extensions wiggling off into nothingness at eye-aching angles. A
should experience, went into shock. But she wasn't granted the mercy
of unconsciousness. Terrified by a pseudo reality that surpassed her
wildest nightmares, she stared wide-eyed at the control room and the
thing that had been Kennon. She screamed until her throat was raw,
until the monster beside her touched her with Kennon's hands. Then,
objective years were passing outside as they hurtled through four-space.
Subjectively it would only be hours aboard the Egg, but a decade--or
maybe a century--might pass outside this mad universe where neither time
nor speed had meaning. The old ships didn't have temporal compensators,
nor could they travel through upper bands of Cth where subjective
and objective time were more nearly equal. They were trapped in
a semi-stasis of time as the ship fled on through the distorted
universe. Beta floated above them, the blue shield of her atmosphere
"Halfway across the galaxy--and right on the nose." He looked at the
shock chair beside him. Copper was curled into a tight ball inside the
confining safety web, knees drawn up, back bent, head down--arms wrapped
Her breathing was shallow. Her lips were blue. Her condition was
obvious--space shock--extreme grade. She'd need medical attention if she
sense enough to give her that injection of Sonmol before we hypered! You
up smoothly and took him down as though it had been rehearsed. The Egg
touched down in the radioactive area of the port. Decontamination jets
least you had sense enough to wear protective clothing in this hotbox,"
one said as they carefully unwebbed Copper and carried her out of the
a pregnant woman up in this death trap! What in Fleming's name's the
unbelieving. "I hear that sort of thing every day," he said. "Am I
There was no further need for the protection suit, so he peeled it off
and hung it in the control-room locker. Copper was right, he mused. It
radiation area. A noncom gestured for him to enter their carryall. "Port
time from the port officials. He filled out numerous forms, signed
affidavits, explained his unauthorized landing, showed his spaceman's
ticket, defended his act of piloting without an up-to-date license,
signed more forms, entered a claim for salvage rights to the Egg, and
finally when the Legal Division, the Traffic Control Division, the
Spaceport Safety Office, Customs, Immigration, and Travelers Aid had
lucky, young man, if you get out of this with a year in Correction. Your
a Port Captain. Under no circumstances could the man be any help to him.
He had neither the power nor the prestige to request a Brotherhood Board
of Inquiry. In rank, he was hardly more than a glorified Traffic Control
officer. It would do no good to tell him an improbable tale of slavery
on a distant planet. The only thing to do was wait out the storm and
hope it would pass. If worst came to worst he'd use his rank, but he'd
made enough stir already. He doubted if the Captain had authority to
order him into Detention--but he was certain to get a lecture. These
minor officials loved to tell someone off. He gritted his teeth. He'd
endure it for Copper's sake--and to get out of here quietly. Alexander
would undoubtedly have agents posted by now, and his only chance for
temporary freedom of action was to get out of here with as little fuss
impatience as the Captain paced up and down and talked on and on. The
man sounded like he could go for hours. With increasing impatience
Kennon listened to the cadenced flow of complaint and condemnation,
occasionally inserting a "Yes, sir" or "Sorry, sir" or "No, sir" as the
was beginning to wear his temper thin. Another five minutes, he
was a matter of medicine. Technically you have contributed to a delay in
coldly. He turned to the interne. "I'm Dr. Kennon." They bowed formally
stiffly. "You are relieved of further charge. Dr. Kennon is urgently
depreciatingly. "One mustn't mind them. They're necessary nuisances."
He eyed Kennon curiously. "How is it that you didn't stand on your
The interne didn't look the type--probably he was dated for some obscure
job, like a general practitioner. He shrugged. It took all kinds to make
car emblazoned with the three crosses, red, blue, and green, that
represented the three fields of medicine. "She's an interesting case.
I've never seen space shock before. And the patient herself--one would
center staff have seen her already. I wasn't proposing to discuss the
this, Mr. Smalley--but I have been for the past two years on a world of
polish your professional manner. Now where I was, it didn't make much
way, sir," Smalley said. He led the way down a green-tiled corridor
to an elevator--then down another corridor past a pair of soft-footed
nurses who eyed them curiously--looking at Kennon's tunic and sandals
with mild disapproval in their eyes. Smalley stopped and knocked softly
age, with prematurely white hair, Dr. Will Brainard combined a fatherly
appearance with an impression of quick intelligence. The fat that
sheathed his stocky body had obviously not touched his mind. Brainard
rose from the deep chair near the window where he had been sitting,
knocked the ashes from his pipe, and bowed stiffly. His eyes--sharp
points of blue in the smooth pinkness of his face--surveyed Kennon
have done a thing like that, but there were some very pressing reasons.
However, I should have given her an injection of Somnol before we
started. I'm criminally liable. If anything happens to her--" His voice
she needs. She's a remarkably healthy young woman. But this is beside
the point. There are a number of unusual features about this case that
need investigation." Brainard took a standard hospital form from his
evidence is conclusive, and there is enough documentary evidence in
the space ship--and in the fact of the ship itself to prove what I am
saying. Laboratory tests here will establish the fact that Copper's
child is also mine. And as for Flora, a Brotherhood Investigation Team
feet proved she was a practicing nudist. No Betan girl ever practices
nudism to my knowledge. Besides, the I.D. tattoo under her left arm and
the V on her hip are no marks of our culture. Then there was another
thing--the serological analysis revealed no gerontal antibodies. She
had never received an injection of longevity compound in her life. This
might occur, but it's highly improbable. The evidence indicates that
Certainly--strong yellow G-type sun--an isolated colony serviced at
First Millennium--when science and religion split irrevocably on this
world. We packed the whole lot of them off to a world of their own where
they could develop as they pleased. They called it Heaven--odd name for
toxic. They tried to prolong Lani life and met with failure. Our plants
sighed. "You have brought us a great deal of trouble, Kennon. You are
bringing matters to a head. If our investigations prove your statements,
we are morally bound to open the Lani question. And if those people are
completely, I could never be sure. He has a Free Trader background
and those people can't he trusted where money's concerned. The whole
Kardonian culture is an outgrowth of Free Traderism: small business,
independent corporation, linear trusts, and all the cutthroat
competition such a culture would naturally have. It's a regular jungle
of Free Enterprise. I couldn't predict how he would react. He could
either act in a moral manner and make restitution, or he could quietly
all, an impartial court declared the Lani alien--and the Betan mutation
plasm," Brainard said. "That's a private affair--a matter of personal
We have no desire to borrow trouble. We are content to leave things
alone. If I hadn't found the spaceship I'd not have been able to lay
aside my moral conditioning. And if I had not, Copper would not have
become pregnant and forced me into these drastic actions. It's even
possible that I would have done nothing." He grimaced. "And when I left
Alexander's employment mnemonic erasure would have removed all memory of
the Lani's human origin." He shrugged. "I still am not certain that it
wouldn't have been the wiser course. Naturally, once I knew, I couldn't
wrong? We achieved dominance of Earth by our moral responsibility to
family, tribe, and nation--and we nearly exterminated ourselves when
we forgot that this responsibility went beyond nations and embraced
all mankind. We learned that after the Exodus. As for the other
races--perhaps someday we will learn moral responsibility for all
intelligence--but we are not ready for that yet. That's too big a mental
hurdle." Brainard sighed. "We are what we are, and we change slowly. But
it witnessed, and make a sealed record. I have to arrange for the
reposition of the evidence inside the Egg, and a complete recording of
arms of these outworld entrepreneurs are long, and unfortunately not all
chance to make restitution. I think he is an honorable man. Slavery may
be as revolting to him as it is to any civilized human. He deserves a
fully qualified to handle the problems of enfranchisement. He's known
the Lani all his life, and he is an executive type. A Brotherhood
committee would probably botch the whole affair. What with colonial
jurisdiction, territorial rights, and all the legal quibbling that
committees love, the Lani would get a poor deal. And there's no reason
to wreck the lives of a couple of hundred million Kardonians because
the rightful owners of Kardon were illegally enslaved. That happened
too long ago to have any practical meaning. There are other and better
"And he'll have to make some form of restitution. But it shouldn't
involve Kardon. Actually the Lani were never in a position to develop
that world. They'd probably have remained on Flora indefinitely. The old
court records showed no tendency for their culture to expand. They
were an inbred group, a static, balanced society in harmony with their
environment. In nearly thirty-five hundred years their numbers increased
only to a few thousand. Actually there is a good possibility that the
race would ultimately have died out if Old Alexander hadn't enslaved
them and instituted a controlled breeding program. There are more Lani
alive today than there were at the height of their power. So in a way
Old Alexander did them a favor. He kept their race alive. All we can
annual progress reports from me--and see or talk to me personally every
second year, you are released from our bond and can do what you wish
looking for me--and if he is, it's merely a question of time before he
you. No--we'll get everything possible done to make the Lani's case
airtight, and then I'll return to Kardon. It will put our case in
a better light if it ever comes to trial, if I go back voluntarily.
quickly. The gerontological treatments put her to bed again, but within
a month she was completely normal, and her lifespan was now that of a
normal human. She could look forward to some four hundred years with
Kennon--and the prospect was not unpleasant. The Center fascinated her.
Never before had she seen a hospital devoted to the care and
treatment of humans. It was a far cry, in its polished steel and stone
magnificence, from the tiny primitive structure over which Kennon had
presided. Yet both places served the same purpose. Perhaps Kennon was
right--that there was no difference between man and Lani. The idea was
Kennon's hand. "It is nice to feel important and to know that our child
read--and since you are around so seldom nowadays, there is little else
to do. I've been reading history, medicine, and novels," she finished
that will merely supplement or complete that which you already have. You
he's had plenty of time to think. Douglas must have told him about us.
I wouldn't be surprised if he has already done something about your
raised by them. They're capable of anything. But what is this business
of ten years? That's silly. I haven't had my child yet--and it doesn't
said. "We traveled here through hyperspace--low Cth--in an uncompensated
important. This idea of going back to Kardon, though--that's a different
butcher. He even loved a Lani once. You told me so yourself. And he
Man Alexander. He held the power of life and death over me. But if you
learn to conform to customs--outwardly at least--no matter what you may
status is cleared by a Brotherhood court, I wouldn't care to place you
his claim as long as you stay on Beta. In the area where he has power,
that doubt might not hold. So until your status is definitely proven to
claim cannot reasonably be denied. The only question is one of time. It
may take years. Still, I don't think there is anything to worry about. I
don't think Alexander will give us any trouble, but there's no sense in
Kennon murmured. "It does no good. It doesn't convince the woman. She's
still fearful, jealous, and suspicious--always belittling her ability
to hold what she has, always alert for competition, clinging, holding,
make his plans and leave quietly. If she was faced with an established
fact, she might be more reasonable. He doubted it, but alone, she could
do nothing--and Brainard would see that she was comfortable. The salvage
money from the Egg would keep her from being a public charge. And he had
more banked in Albertsville which he could send her once he got there.
out and placed one slim hand in his. "I know what you are thinking," she
said, "and--" her face twisted in a grimace of pain, and the hand in his
a son. Now if you'd call for the doctor, perhaps we can get this over.
That pain was only twenty minutes from the last. I think it's about
certain callousness about them--was suddenly frightened and helpless
as he pushed the call button. He could feel the cold sweat form on his
forehead. He had started this. It was his fault if anything went wrong.
He wished that it was someone else rather than Copper who was going
through this trial. He was nervous, unsure, and guilty. In a word, he
meaning. Most Betans didn't know what a horse was, let alone whether
it was healthy or not. From what Kennon could remember of veterinary
history, the horse wasn't too healthy an animal. It was rather delicate,
"We must take exhaustive tests if we expect the court to reverse its
Shortliner connections with other worlds were infrequent. Beta had done
a good job separating from the rest of the Brotherhood. Too good. The
spaceline schedules showed only one departure in the next month, a
Shortliner for Earth, and from Earth the road to Kardon was long and
tortuous, involving a series of short jumps from world to world and a
final medium-range hop from Halsey to Kardon. If everything went right
and he made every connection he would be in Kardon four months after he
left Beta. Kennon sighed as he left Travelers Aid. Morality was a heavy
Co-operative where he had been staying. He had left Huntersville and
Copper a week ago, after he had seen his child. His child! The thought
of being a father was oddly dismaying. It distorted his sense of values.
But one thing was certain. He was returning to Kardon, and Copper was
not coming with him. She had a duty to their son--and he had a duty to
his contract with Alexander, to the Lani on Flora, and to Copper--and
none of these could be satisfied by further running. He had to return
in front of his room. "My name is Richter," he said "--Art Richter. Are
you by sight." He sighed. "One has to observe the formalities in this
business." He drew a long white envelope from his tunic and handed it to
"I really thought this would be harder, considering the charges against
man Richter was undoubtedly a process server--but who had hired him?
He unfolded the sheet and scanned the charges--coercion, larceny,
livestock theft, and breach of contract. He shrugged. This was
Alexander's work. What was the man thinking of? It was insanity to
bring the Lani matter into open court. Hadn't Douglas told him what had
happened? Couldn't Alexander guess that he had fled with Copper for a
good reason--one that would stand up in court? Didn't he know about the
spacer? Or had Douglas turned on his cousin? The pup had so many hates
that it was possible. He was a natural troublemaker. Maybe Alexander
didn't know. Maybe he was working in the dark. Kennon scanned the sheet
quickly. Ah! here it was. Complaint--Mr. Alexander X. M. Alexander,
straight to the phone beside the bed. He lifted the handset from its
cradle and dialed the operator. "Get me Huntersville THU 2-1408. I want
to speak to Dr. Brainard, Dr. Will Brainard. This is a priority
call--my name is Kennon. Dr. Jac Kennon D.V.M. I'm in the registry--47M
26429--yes--of course, and thank you." He waited a moment. "Hello--Dr.
Brainard?--Kennon here. I've just had some news. Alexander's on Beta!
Yes--he served me with a summons. Can you get a restraining order to
prevent him from leaving? You can? Good! Here's his address." Kennon
rattled off the location. "Yes--I'm taking the next airboat to Beta
City. This should simplify things considerably.--Of course it should. He
was a fool to have come here. Yes--I suppose you should tell Copper.
Oh! She is? I'm sorry to hear that, but there's no reason for her to
be angry. She should realize that I did this for her--not to make her
miserable. Hmm.--She--she has? You think she should come with
me?--Yes, I realize she can be a problem when she wants to be. All right
then--tell her to pack a toothbrush and a few spare diapers. And see if
you can get me a couple of tickets on the next flight to Beta City. I'll
be over in a couple of hours and pick her up." He cradled the phone and
Alexander. Yes. I'll wait. This number is HUV 2-1278 and my name
is Kennon, Dr. Jac Kennon 47M 26429. I called you before. No, I'm a
transient. I can refer you to Dr. James Brainard, Huntersville Medical
Center. Yes, I'll accept charges. Now will you give me that number? BCA
you do, but I've been trying to get back to Kardon for the past month.
You are? Well, that's your privilege, but I'd advise you to go easy
until I see you. Naturally--I'm coming as soon as I can get there. We'll
be seeing you tomorrow morning at the latest. We?--I'm bringing Copper,
years hadn't served to cool him off. What had happened on Kardon after
he had left? Kennon shook his head. There was something here he didn't
understand. The entrepreneur should have been covering his tracks, not
threatening jail and disaccreditation. It was obvious that a personal
things before you took this case to court. You obviously do not
understand what has happened. I suppose Douglas has double-crossed you.
It would be characteristic of him. But before we go any further I think
we should clear the air and let each other know where we stand. I
don't want to make trouble if it's not necessary. You'll notice I'm not
wearing a thought screen, so you'll be able to check everything I say,
of breach of contract and larceny of corporation property, but there are
quite probably I can think of more if you beat these. I'm going to make
an example of you, Kennon. I'm going to drag you down and stamp on you.
You're going to be a horrible example to all smart operators who think
they can break contracts. It's taken a million credits and ten years'
legs from under him. "You believe it," he said. "--No--you've proved
chair, his face clouded, his expression troubled. It was obvious that
feeling, he suspected, to have the beliefs of a lifetime ripped apart
None of us knew. And we still wouldn't know if the Lani weren't of
Betan extraction." He grimaced painfully. "I've done some soul-searching
suspected they were human when I was younger, but I denied my suspicions
experimental station you left us when you disappeared ten years ago. But
we stopped when we found the age that was being indoctrinated with Lani
spaceship. I assumed it was one of those that were involved in that
commercial raid a few decades ago, but I see it wasn't. No--I knew
nothing about this development. And Douglas, I guess, wanted to keep
it hidden. He gave your co-ordinates and ordered Mullins to launch a
missile. But he apparently forgot to turn on his IFF. At any rate
the missile lost you--but found Douglas. Douglas was still talking to
before you could destroy Outworld Enterprises. His motives were selfish
as usual." Alexander looked at Kennon with a haggard eye. "I owe you an
apology," he said. "I've considered you responsible for Douglas's death
for ten years. I've searched for you on a hundred worlds. My agents in
every branch office have had standing orders to report any unusual
arrivals. I have hunted you personally. I wanted to break you--I wanted
reasons I came here. I wanted to see how you'd react when you learned
I could have checked it further. But I didn't. Outworld Enterprises is
far bigger than Flora--and I was busy. Galactic trade is a snake-pit.
And, after all, there was Douglas's death--and the Family with their
never-ending clamor for money and their threats when it didn't come
promptly. I like being an entrepreneur, but until I made Outworld
independent of Family control, I couldn't do anything except run the
business to their wishes. Actually the island was only a small part of
the corporation. I tried to run it as humanely as possible under the
circumstances." He shuddered. "I don't think I was ever needlessly
arrangements. You wouldn't come here--oh! I see. Congratulations.
Handling the evidence that way was a wise course. You have my
admiration. But then I should have known that I was not dealing with a
settle this affair. It is a matter only you can handle. There is
no sense in killing Outworld or throwing Kardon into centuries of
litigation. The Lani never were numerous enough to lay claim to an
entire world. I'll admit the club is there, but I'll never use it unless
a little physically--and we've learned to use new tools, but our minds
are still the minds of barbarians--blood brothers against the enemy, and
everything not of us is enemy. Savages--hiding under a thin veneer
of superficial culture. Savages with spaceships and the atom." Kennon
looked down at Copper. Apparently her thoughts were miles away in an
introspective world that was all her own. She had said her piece and
having done that was content to let the two men develop it. Kennon
looked at her with odd respect. Alexander eyed her with a mildly
startled expression on his lean face. And both men smiled, but the
worry about how the Lani will turn out." He looked at Kennon with mild
I'm doing the guiding. I've changed a lot of my opinions about Copper
secrets neither of them would ever know. Alexander chuckled. "It serves
you right." He crossed his legs and looked up at Kennon standing before
him. By some uncanny legerdemain he had gotten control of himself
and the situation at the same time. Being telepathic was an unfair
"Sure--humanity makes mistakes, and like this one they're sometimes
brutal mistakes. But we are capable of atonement. Morally we have come a
long way from the brutality of the Interregnum. I shouldn't have to use
examples, but look at that"--he waved at the view wall at the panorama
of gleaming fairy towers and greenery that made Beta City one of the
most beautiful in the Brotherhood. "Don't tell me that five thousand
years of peace and development haven't produced civilization. That's a
beautifully designed for art and utility--but it isn't civilization.
You're confusing technology with culture. You look at this and say,
'What a great civilization man has built,' when you really mean, 'What
a great technology mankind has developed.' There's all the difference in
the world. Technology is of the mind and hands. Civilization is of the
humanity a closed corporation, a special club in which men can live but
aliens can't. We've made the standards for admission so rigid that
we even enslave our own kind and call them animals. That's not
fortune is based upon it. And you have perpetuated this traffic in flesh
on the specious reasoning that a court judgment of half a millennium ago
is as good today as when it was handed down. Never once did anyone have
the moral courage to re-examine that old decision. Never once did any
human question the rightness of that decision. None of us are immune.
We all based our conduct upon an antiquated law and searched no further.
Everyone was happy with the status quo--or at least not so unhappy that
they wanted to change it. Even I would have been content had it not been
"Even though you have shown me that I am a slaver, and made me see
faults I never knew I had." His face was drawn--harsh lines reached from
nose to lips, from eyes to chin. Suddenly he looked old. "I can accept
censure if censure is just. And this is just. No--I'm not sorry I hired
you even though the thought of what I have helped do to the Lani makes
Family will turn tail and run. You can break the company, and I won't
stand in your way. It's only just. You're the one who's carrying the
you're not legally liable. It was a mistake. All you have to do is admit
the error and start from there. Naturally--no reasonable intelligence
would expect that you change the older Lani. They're too old for either
agerone or change. It would be both cruel and inhuman to turn them
loose. It's with the youngsters that you can work--those who are
physically and physiologically young enough to derive benefit from
to change things overnight. It's the future of the Lani race that's
important, And Brainard agrees with me. A phase-out is the proper
solution. Change the education, let males be born--teach the young to
think instead of to obey. Give them Phoebe for a home--they never owned
all of Kardon anyway. And within a century or two we will have a new
cause less trouble that way," she said. "It would be more sure--and
besides, the Lani will need our help for some time to come." Alexander
looked at Kennon. "Can we make an agreement that all parties will
a choice of drastically reduced income or outright confiscation and
preferring a portion of a loaf to none. Alexander--grim but oddly
peaceful of expression. Brainard--pink-cheeked and emotionless. Kennon
and Copper--happily conscious that it was at last finished. It was an
oddly assorted group of conspirators who planned to restore a segment of
helped create? I'll need a manager on Kardon to phase out the island
have forgotten. You've gotten your agreement--now you will satisfy me.
As I see it you have breached your contract by leaving Flora without
larger in his stomach. Brainard was grinning and Copper's eyes were
shining. "You've been jobbed!" his mind told him. He sighed. He knew
inexorably, "is very broad. Discretion is vested in the entrepreneur. I
merciful. I am going to extend your contract until phase-out has been
completed. You are going to have control of the entire Kardon phase of
the operation. It's poetic justice--you made the mess--now you can clean
smiled at Copper's radiant face. The thought of going home was good to
her. "Good luck on your new job, Dr. Kennon," he said. "And welcome to
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given awayyou may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase Project
Gutenberg), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg License available with this file or online at
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg
Foundation or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg License when
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg work (any work
on which the phrase Project Gutenberg appears, or with which the
phrase Project Gutenberg is associated) is accessed, displayed,
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you
are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase Project
Gutenberg associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg work in a format
other than Plain Vanilla ASCII or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original Plain
Vanilla ASCII or other form. Any alternate format must include the
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg works
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg electronic works
    the use of Project Gutenberg works calculated using the method
    you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
    to the owner of the Project Gutenberg trademark, but he has
    agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
    Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
    within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
    legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
    payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
    Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
    Section 4, Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
    Literary Archive Foundation.

 You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
    you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
    does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg
    License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
    copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
    all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg
    works.

 You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
    any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
    electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
    receipt of the work.

 You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
    distribution of Project Gutenberg works.
Gutenberg electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain Defects, such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
of Replacement or Refund described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you AS-IS, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg work, and (c) any
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenbergs
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundations EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundations website
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
Gutenberg concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg eBooks with only a loose network of
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
